Kind: captions Language: en
Okay, here we are. It's week three. I am
Okay, here we are. It's week three. I am
Okay, here we are. It's week three. I am in the garage again where I like to do
in the garage again where I like to do
in the garage again where I like to do all of my coding.
all of my coding.
all of my coding. Right.
Right.
Right. So, this week if you have a look on
So, this week if you have a look on
So, this week if you have a look on canvas, we are going to encounter a few
canvas, we are going to encounter a few
canvas, we are going to encounter a few new
new
new important coding concepts. uh the main
important coding concepts. uh the main
important coding concepts. uh the main one
one
one uh being loops
uh being loops
uh being loops and there are a couple of different
and there are a couple of different
and there are a couple of different types of loops
types of loops
types of loops and we'll discuss each in turn
and we'll discuss each in turn
and we'll discuss each in turn and all we're really going to do is
and all we're really going to do is
and all we're really going to do is use them in conjunction with the
use them in conjunction with the
use them in conjunction with the knowledge we've already gained on lists
knowledge we've already gained on lists
knowledge we've already gained on lists and logic. Uh, in fact, we haven't
and logic. Uh, in fact, we haven't
and logic. Uh, in fact, we haven't really covered lists.
really covered lists.
really covered lists. Um, but I'm I think they'll be
Um, but I'm I think they'll be
Um, but I'm I think they'll be reasonably intuitive for you. Um, we've
reasonably intuitive for you. Um, we've
reasonably intuitive for you. Um, we've treated some strings like lists.
treated some strings like lists.
treated some strings like lists. So, we can do things like pick out
So, we can do things like pick out
So, we can do things like pick out characters from a list, choose items.
characters from a list, choose items.
characters from a list, choose items. Um, or we can reverse a list. A list
Um, or we can reverse a list. A list
Um, or we can reverse a list. A list doesn't have to just be a list of
doesn't have to just be a list of
doesn't have to just be a list of characters. It can be anything, numbers,
characters. It can be anything, numbers,
characters. It can be anything, numbers, it can be boolean variables. It can be a
it can be boolean variables. It can be a
it can be boolean variables. It can be a mix of different elements as well with
mix of different elements as well with
mix of different elements as well with with different data types. So let's work
with different data types. So let's work
with different data types. So let's work through these questions one by one.
through these questions one by one.
through these questions one by one. Uh we'll start with number one. It's a
Uh we'll start with number one. It's a
Uh we'll start with number one. It's a simple one to begin with. It's called
simple one to begin with. It's called
simple one to begin with. It's called sum list. So we're going to take a list
sum list. So we're going to take a list
sum list. So we're going to take a list of numbers and here they are. I'm going
of numbers and here they are. I'm going
of numbers and here they are. I'm going to copy these.
to copy these.
to copy these. I'm going to head on over to my Visual
I'm going to head on over to my Visual
I'm going to head on over to my Visual Studio Code which I've got running. And
Studio Code which I've got running. And
Studio Code which I've got running. And I've got a weak folder I've created
I've got a weak folder I've created
I've got a weak folder I've created here.
here.
here. And I'm going to click new file question
And I'm going to click new file question
And I'm going to click new file question one.py.
Okay. And you'll see here that I'm in my
Okay. And you'll see here that I'm in my
Okay. And you'll see here that I'm in my command line. I have
command line. I have
command line. I have um cded into that folder. So I'm in my
um cded into that folder. So I'm in my
um cded into that folder. So I'm in my week three folder. Otherwise, it won't
week three folder. Otherwise, it won't
week three folder. Otherwise, it won't run if I do python q1.py
run if I do python q1.py
run if I do python q1.py um or if I click run. There we go.
um or if I click run. There we go.
um or if I click run. There we go. That's doing that now. actually. Um,
That's doing that now. actually. Um,
That's doing that now. actually. Um, yeah, that worked. That that worked fine
yeah, that worked. That that worked fine
yeah, that worked. That that worked fine anyway, so it's fine. Um, so, okay. So,
anyway, so it's fine. Um, so, okay. So,
anyway, so it's fine. Um, so, okay. So, I'm I've got a list. Let's call it list.
I'm I've got a list. Let's call it list.
I'm I've got a list. Let's call it list. In fact, I'm not going to use list
In fact, I'm not going to use list
In fact, I'm not going to use list because you notice if I type the word
because you notice if I type the word
because you notice if I type the word list, it goes green. And the reason it
list, it goes green. And the reason it
list, it goes green. And the reason it goes green is because the word list is
goes green is because the word list is
goes green is because the word list is actually a function in Python. So I
actually a function in Python. So I
actually a function in Python. So I don't want to
don't want to
don't want to use a variable name which is has already
use a variable name which is has already
use a variable name which is has already been dedicated to a function name in
been dedicated to a function name in
been dedicated to a function name in Python. So I'm going to call it
Python. So I'm going to call it
Python. So I'm going to call it something else. I'm going to call it my
something else. I'm going to call it my
something else. I'm going to call it my my list just to be really specific and
my list just to be really specific and
my list just to be really specific and I'm going to paste that in. Okay. And
I'm going to paste that in. Okay. And
I'm going to paste that in. Okay. And what I want to do is I want to Oops.
what I want to do is I want to Oops.
what I want to do is I want to Oops. I want to add every number in that list.
I want to add every number in that list.
I want to add every number in that list. Now that's that's trivial, right? In
Now that's that's trivial, right? In
Now that's that's trivial, right? In this case, I could do that probably in
this case, I could do that probably in
this case, I could do that probably in my head just about.
my head just about.
my head just about. But you might not have a five item list
But you might not have a five item list
But you might not have a five item list numbers. You might have a 50,000 or a 50
numbers. You might have a 50,000 or a 50
numbers. You might have a 50,000 or a 50 million list and you might have to add
million list and you might have to add
million list and you might have to add them all up. So there are a couple of
them all up. So there are a couple of
them all up. So there are a couple of ways to do that. I'm going to really
ways to do that. I'm going to really
ways to do that. I'm going to really show you this from first principles.
show you this from first principles.
show you this from first principles. We're going to use a a loop to do it.
We're going to use a a loop to do it.
We're going to use a a loop to do it. And now there are two types of loops I'm
And now there are two types of loops I'm
And now there are two types of loops I'm going to talk about this week. One is
going to talk about this week. One is
going to talk about this week. One is called the for loop and one is called
called the for loop and one is called
called the for loop and one is called the while loop. And my general
the while loop. And my general
the while loop. And my general philosophy on loops is you can pretty
philosophy on loops is you can pretty
philosophy on loops is you can pretty much do everything with a for loop. Um a
much do everything with a for loop. Um a
much do everything with a for loop. Um a while loop can sometimes
while loop can sometimes
while loop can sometimes be very very useful but in my experience
be very very useful but in my experience
be very very useful but in my experience they cause a lot of trouble as well
they cause a lot of trouble as well
they cause a lot of trouble as well because if you get a while loop wrong
because if you get a while loop wrong
because if you get a while loop wrong you end up in a situation where you
you end up in a situation where you
you end up in a situation where you might be looping forever and your
might be looping forever and your
might be looping forever and your computer will just crash. It's quite
computer will just crash. It's quite
computer will just crash. It's quite easy to crash things with a while loop,
easy to crash things with a while loop,
easy to crash things with a while loop, less so with a for loop. Okay, but let
less so with a for loop. Okay, but let
less so with a for loop. Okay, but let me let let's let's stick with for loops
me let let's let's stick with for loops
me let let's let's stick with for loops for now. I want to create a loop and I'm
for now. I want to create a loop and I'm
for now. I want to create a loop and I'm I'm going to do this and I'm going to
I'm going to do this and I'm going to
I'm going to do this and I'm going to start my loop with the word for. Okay,
start my loop with the word for. Okay,
start my loop with the word for. Okay, you see it's gone purple, which means
you see it's gone purple, which means
you see it's gone purple, which means Python knows something's going on. Um,
Python knows something's going on. Um,
Python knows something's going on. Um, and then what I want to do, I'm going to
and then what I want to do, I'm going to
and then what I want to do, I'm going to I'm going to create a new variable here,
I'm going to create a new variable here,
I'm going to create a new variable here, which is just going to be a placeholder
which is just going to be a placeholder
which is just going to be a placeholder for for each element in my list in turn.
for for each element in my list in turn.
for for each element in my list in turn. So, I'm just going to call it numbum,
So, I'm just going to call it numbum,
So, I'm just going to call it numbum, right? For numbum in my list. Okay.
right? For numbum in my list. Okay.
right? For numbum in my list. Okay. Colon. And that's this that colon the
Colon. And that's this that colon the
Colon. And that's this that colon the end of that line is really, really
end of that line is really, really
end of that line is really, really important. Um, and then I'm going to hit
important. Um, and then I'm going to hit
important. Um, and then I'm going to hit enter. And you'll notice Python has
enter. And you'll notice Python has
enter. And you'll notice Python has automatically indented
automatically indented
automatically indented my code just as I would have done for a
my code just as I would have done for a
my code just as I would have done for a conditional statement. If this then that
conditional statement. If this then that
conditional statement. If this then that or if if colon, it would have indented
or if if colon, it would have indented
or if if colon, it would have indented it. It does it for the loops as well.
it. It does it for the loops as well.
it. It does it for the loops as well. And again, this is a key feature of the
And again, this is a key feature of the
And again, this is a key feature of the Python language. It uses that tab to one
Python language. It uses that tab to one
Python language. It uses that tab to one make your code a bit more um accessible
make your code a bit more um accessible
make your code a bit more um accessible and a bit more readable, but also to
and a bit more readable, but also to
and a bit more readable, but also to decide what to do and when. So, it's
decide what to do and when. So, it's
decide what to do and when. So, it's really important you have that tab in
really important you have that tab in
really important you have that tab in there. Otherwise, you're going to get an
there. Otherwise, you're going to get an
there. Otherwise, you're going to get an indentation error. Um what do I want to
indentation error. Um what do I want to
indentation error. Um what do I want to do now? I want to add these numbers up.
do now? I want to add these numbers up.
do now? I want to add these numbers up. Okay. Okay. So, I think what I should
Okay. Okay. So, I think what I should
Okay. Okay. So, I think what I should have done first is I should have just
have done first is I should have just
have done first is I should have just created an empty variable called total.
created an empty variable called total.
created an empty variable called total. Oops. Total. And I'm going to set it to
Oops. Total. And I'm going to set it to
Oops. Total. And I'm going to set it to zero. So, I'm going to count and I'm
zero. So, I'm going to count and I'm
zero. So, I'm going to count and I'm going to Oh, I'm going to loop through
going to Oh, I'm going to loop through
going to Oh, I'm going to loop through these items. And every time
these items. And every time
these items. And every time I encounter a new element, I want to add
I encounter a new element, I want to add
I encounter a new element, I want to add it to my running total. So, there's a
it to my running total. So, there's a
it to my running total. So, there's a couple of ways I could do that. I'll
couple of ways I could do that. I'll
couple of ways I could do that. I'll show you the long way. total um equals
show you the long way. total um equals
show you the long way. total um equals total plus num. Um, and what that's
total plus num. Um, and what that's
total plus num. Um, and what that's going to do is it's going to take my
going to do is it's going to take my
going to do is it's going to take my first total. So, the first time on the
first total. So, the first time on the
first total. So, the first time on the list, it's going to get this three, and
list, it's going to get this three, and
list, it's going to get this three, and it's going to take my total, which is
it's going to take my total, which is
it's going to take my total, which is set to zero, and it's going to say I
set to zero, and it's going to say I
set to zero, and it's going to say I want to define a new total, which is 0 +
want to define a new total, which is 0 +
want to define a new total, which is 0 + 3. So, then my total becomes three. And
3. So, then my total becomes three. And
3. So, then my total becomes three. And then I loop again, and this time it's a
then I loop again, and this time it's a
then I loop again, and this time it's a seven. So, I've got a three plus a
seven. So, I've got a three plus a
seven. So, I've got a three plus a seven. That gives me 10. and so on and
seven. That gives me 10. and so on and
seven. That gives me 10. and so on and so on till I get to the end of the list.
so on till I get to the end of the list.
so on till I get to the end of the list. Then once I've done that, um I can print
Then once I've done that, um I can print
Then once I've done that, um I can print out the total.
And you'll notice that
And you'll notice that
And you'll notice that I have
I have
I have finished with this indent and I've come
finished with this indent and I've come
finished with this indent and I've come back over to the left here. So I don't
back over to the left here. So I don't
back over to the left here. So I don't want to do this within the loop. I can
want to do this within the loop. I can
want to do this within the loop. I can do it within the loop, but what it will
do it within the loop, but what it will
do it within the loop, but what it will do is it will print out the running
do is it will print out the running
do is it will print out the running total as it scans through the loop.
total as it scans through the loop.
total as it scans through the loop. Okay. Um let me just run this. See what
Okay. Um let me just run this. See what
Okay. Um let me just run this. See what happens. There we go. I get a total of
happens. There we go. I get a total of
happens. There we go. I get a total of 26, which is correct. Let me show you
26, which is correct. Let me show you
26, which is correct. Let me show you what would happen if I had done this
what would happen if I had done this
what would happen if I had done this inside the loop.
inside the loop.
inside the loop. There you go. It would have output the
There you go. It would have output the
There you go. It would have output the the new total every time I iterated
the new total every time I iterated
the new total every time I iterated through my loop. Okay. So, I don't want
through my loop. Okay. So, I don't want
through my loop. Okay. So, I don't want to do that. I could do it. It's all
to do that. I could do it. It's all
to do that. I could do it. It's all right, but um really I printing things
right, but um really I printing things
right, but um really I printing things out takes a bit of energy in Python. So,
out takes a bit of energy in Python. So,
out takes a bit of energy in Python. So, I only want to do it at the end. Okay.
I only want to do it at the end. Okay.
I only want to do it at the end. Okay. Um there's a there's a there's a
Um there's a there's a there's a
Um there's a there's a there's a shortcut to be had here. And often
shortcut to be had here. And often
shortcut to be had here. And often you'll see a symbol that looks like
you'll see a symbol that looks like
you'll see a symbol that looks like this. Um, plus equals
this. Um, plus equals
this. Um, plus equals num.
num.
num. So if I run that, I get the same answer.
So if I run that, I get the same answer.
So if I run that, I get the same answer. So this plus equals is a kind of
So this plus equals is a kind of
So this plus equals is a kind of shorthand for total equals total plus
shorthand for total equals total plus
shorthand for total equals total plus num. It's simply saying I just want to
num. It's simply saying I just want to
num. It's simply saying I just want to add the number to the existing total
add the number to the existing total
add the number to the existing total variable. Um, there's a minus as well. I
variable. Um, there's a minus as well. I
variable. Um, there's a minus as well. I could have if I wanted to subtract
could have if I wanted to subtract
could have if I wanted to subtract um or I could have multiplied as well.
um or I could have multiplied as well.
um or I could have multiplied as well. So your operator followed by the equals
So your operator followed by the equals
So your operator followed by the equals um is a kind of nice little shortand.
um is a kind of nice little shortand.
um is a kind of nice little shortand. Okay. Right. So that's question one
Okay. Right. So that's question one
Okay. Right. So that's question one done. Before I move on um I've made you
done. Before I move on um I've made you
done. Before I move on um I've made you use a for loop to answer this question
use a for loop to answer this question
use a for loop to answer this question because I wanted to show you what a for
because I wanted to show you what a for
because I wanted to show you what a for loop looks like. However, there is a
loop looks like. However, there is a
loop looks like. However, there is a much easier way of doing all of this.
much easier way of doing all of this.
much easier way of doing all of this. Print some my list.
Print some my list.
Print some my list. Put total in there.
There we go. Does the same thing. So,
There we go. Does the same thing. So,
There we go. Does the same thing. So, there is an existing function in Python
there is an existing function in Python
there is an existing function in Python that will do exactly what we did. And I
that will do exactly what we did. And I
that will do exactly what we did. And I I suspect if we were to inspect that
I suspect if we were to inspect that
I suspect if we were to inspect that function, I'm not going to do it now. It
function, I'm not going to do it now. It
function, I'm not going to do it now. It will look suspiciously like what we
will look suspiciously like what we
will look suspiciously like what we coded. Okay. So, there's always more
coded. Okay. So, there's always more
coded. Okay. So, there's always more than one way to do something in Python,
than one way to do something in Python,
than one way to do something in Python, right? We'll go and take a look at
right? We'll go and take a look at
right? We'll go and take a look at question two next.
