Kind: captions Language: en
characters in there. Okay. Right. I'm
characters in there. Okay. Right. I'm
characters in there. Okay. Right. I'm going to pause it there and we're going
going to pause it there and we're going
going to pause it there and we're going to go take a look at the next question
to go take a look at the next question
to go take a look at the next question shortly.
Okay. Question three. Concatenate two
Okay. Question three. Concatenate two
Okay. Question three. Concatenate two sequences. So this time I've got or I
sequences. So this time I've got or I
sequences. So this time I've got or I need a script that asks for two strings
need a script that asks for two strings
need a script that asks for two strings and
and
and I want to print the uppercase
I want to print the uppercase
I want to print the uppercase concatenation. concatenation is just a
concatenation. concatenation is just a
concatenation. concatenation is just a posh word for joining stuff together.
posh word for joining stuff together.
posh word for joining stuff together. Okay, so I want to join them together
Okay, so I want to join them together
Okay, so I want to join them together and then I still want to print out the
and then I still want to print out the
and then I still want to print out the length of the concatenated string as
length of the concatenated string as
length of the concatenated string as well. Okay, so we're we're flying
well. Okay, so we're we're flying
well. Okay, so we're we're flying through these now. Let's take a look.
through these now. Let's take a look.
through these now. Let's take a look. Um, let's go back here. Where am I
Um, let's go back here. Where am I
Um, let's go back here. Where am I going? Come on, Rob. Uh, let's start a
going? Come on, Rob. Uh, let's start a
going? Come on, Rob. Uh, let's start a new file. Q3.
new file. Q3.
new file. Q3. I'm hopefully going to speed up as we go
I'm hopefully going to speed up as we go
I'm hopefully going to speed up as we go along here. Um, so I want to ask for the
along here. Um, so I want to ask for the
along here. Um, so I want to ask for the first sequence.
first sequence.
first sequence. Oops. Sequence. Let's call it sequence
Oops. Sequence. Let's call it sequence
Oops. Sequence. Let's call it sequence one. And you can see my autofill is come
one. And you can see my autofill is come
one. And you can see my autofill is come back on here. I don't want that. I'm
back on here. I don't want that. I'm
back on here. I don't want that. I'm going to turn this off.
going to turn this off.
going to turn this off. Um, let's just
Um, let's just
Um, let's just all files.
all files.
all files. Okay. Sequence one. Uh, and I'm going to
Okay. Sequence one. Uh, and I'm going to
Okay. Sequence one. Uh, and I'm going to use an input. I've done it again. Hang
use an input. I've done it again. Hang
use an input. I've done it again. Hang on. Hang on.
Python. Yeah. Okay. Uncheck the Python
Python. Yeah. Okay. Uncheck the Python
Python. Yeah. Okay. Uncheck the Python one if that affects you. Sequence one.
one if that affects you. Sequence one.
one if that affects you. Sequence one. Input. Um, please input
Input. Um, please input
Input. Um, please input your first sequence.
And then I'm going to do sequence two.
Oops. Okay. So, you see what I did
Oops. Okay. So, you see what I did
Oops. Okay. So, you see what I did there? I put a space. If you put a space
there? I put a space. If you put a space
there? I put a space. If you put a space in a variable name, it won't work. Um,
in a variable name, it won't work. Um,
in a variable name, it won't work. Um, if you do want a space, the the
if you do want a space, the the
if you do want a space, the the conventional thing to do is an
conventional thing to do is an
conventional thing to do is an underscore. Uh, but I'm going to be lazy
underscore. Uh, but I'm going to be lazy
underscore. Uh, but I'm going to be lazy today and just do sequence two. In fact,
today and just do sequence two. In fact,
today and just do sequence two. In fact, I'm going to be really lazy. And I'm
I'm going to be really lazy. And I'm
I'm going to be really lazy. And I'm going to do seek one and see two. You
going to do seek one and see two. You
going to do seek one and see two. You can I generally like to make them pretty
can I generally like to make them pretty
can I generally like to make them pretty short, but they should still be
short, but they should still be
short, but they should still be reasonably descriptive. Okay, very
reasonably descriptive. Okay, very
reasonably descriptive. Okay, very important for naming variables. You need
important for naming variables. You need
important for naming variables. You need to understand what they are um later or
to understand what they are um later or
to understand what they are um later or someone else needs to understand what
someone else needs to understand what
someone else needs to understand what they are. Input.
they are. Input.
they are. Input. Please input your second sequence.
Right.
Right.
Right. What were we doing? We were going to
What were we doing? We were going to
What were we doing? We were going to concatenate these.
concatenate these.
concatenate these. So
So
So concat
concat
concat sequence. Okay. So that's really easy to
sequence. Okay. So that's really easy to
sequence. Okay. So that's really easy to do in Python assuming your variables are
do in Python assuming your variables are
do in Python assuming your variables are strings. I can just do seek one plus
strings. I can just do seek one plus
strings. I can just do seek one plus seek two. Oops.
seek two. Oops.
seek two. Oops. And then I can print the mouse. Print
And then I can print the mouse. Print
And then I can print the mouse. Print concat sequence. Let me just run that
concat sequence. Let me just run that
concat sequence. Let me just run that quick.
quick.
quick. Uh let's do acg
Uh let's do acg
Uh let's do acg gaca.
gaca.
gaca. There we go. That's done that. Now
There we go. That's done that. Now
There we go. That's done that. Now remember, I also wanted to give me the
remember, I also wanted to give me the
remember, I also wanted to give me the uppercase of this and I wanted to print
uppercase of this and I wanted to print
uppercase of this and I wanted to print out the length. So, we've already done
out the length. So, we've already done
out the length. So, we've already done that. So, I'm just going to do um
that. So, I'm just going to do um
that. So, I'm just going to do um print.uper
print.uper
print.uper in that original print statement and
in that original print statement and
in that original print statement and finish it off with another statement for
finish it off with another statement for
finish it off with another statement for printing len concat sequence. Right. And
printing len concat sequence. Right. And
printing len concat sequence. Right. And if we do that,
if we do that,
if we do that, ac g a t
ac g a t
ac g a t a tac.
a tac.
a tac. There we go. Done. Let's see what's
There we go. Done. Let's see what's
There we go. Done. Let's see what's happening in the next
