Kind: captions Language: en
Right, week two. Hello everybody. Uh,
Right, week two. Hello everybody. Uh,
Right, week two. Hello everybody. Uh, thanks for joining me in my garage this
thanks for joining me in my garage this
thanks for joining me in my garage this week.
week.
week. So, I am on the week two workshop
So, I am on the week two workshop
So, I am on the week two workshop questions
questions
questions and I'm going to work through these one
and I'm going to work through these one
and I'm going to work through these one by one. Uh, let's uh let's take them in
by one. Uh, let's uh let's take them in
by one. Uh, let's uh let's take them in order. Let's fire up the
order. Let's fire up the
order. Let's fire up the Visual Studio Code to begin with. I
Visual Studio Code to begin with. I
Visual Studio Code to begin with. I ignore that.
ignore that.
ignore that. Let's have a look at um something. Where
Let's have a look at um something. Where
Let's have a look at um something. Where was I working before?
was I working before?
was I working before? 733.
733.
733. There's week one. I'm actually going to
There's week one. I'm actually going to
There's week one. I'm actually going to create a new folder, I think. H.
create a new folder, I think. H.
create a new folder, I think. H. So,
I'm going to open where I was working
I'm going to open where I was working
I'm going to open where I was working last time, which was in um 733.
So, I'm going to open that.
Um,
Um,
Um, there we go.
there we go.
there we go. And yeah, I've got some PI files in
And yeah, I've got some PI files in
And yeah, I've got some PI files in there. Great. I'm going to create a new
there. Great. I'm going to create a new
there. Great. I'm going to create a new folder in here called week two.
folder in here called week two.
folder in here called week two. I'm going to keep it consistent with how
I'm going to keep it consistent with how
I'm going to keep it consistent with how I've labeled it with capitals down
I've labeled it with capitals down
I've labeled it with capitals down below.
below.
below. And I'm going to hop into that folder
And I'm going to hop into that folder
And I'm going to hop into that folder and then right click on it, create a new
and then right click on it, create a new
and then right click on it, create a new file. Let's do it. Let's call it
file. Let's do it. Let's call it
file. Let's do it. Let's call it question q1.py.
There we go. I'm ready to go. I think I
There we go. I'm ready to go. I think I
There we go. I'm ready to go. I think I better
better
better uh make the settings. I always forget
uh make the settings. I always forget
uh make the settings. I always forget how to do this.
how to do this.
how to do this. Preferences settings
editor. Oh, that was right. Commonly
editor. Oh, that was right. Commonly
editor. Oh, that was right. Commonly used. Yeah, let's make that up to 24.
used. Yeah, let's make that up to 24.
used. Yeah, let's make that up to 24. Okay. Go back. Right. There we go. Get
Okay. Go back. Right. There we go. Get
Okay. Go back. Right. There we go. Get rid of that over there. Let's go back to
rid of that over there. Let's go back to
rid of that over there. Let's go back to the question. Simple calculator.
the question. Simple calculator.
the question. Simple calculator. Question one.
Question one.
Question one. Ask the user for two numbers and print.
Ask the user for two numbers and print.
Ask the user for two numbers and print. One, their sum, two, their difference,
One, their sum, two, their difference,
One, their sum, two, their difference, three, their product, and see their
three, their product, and see their
three, their product, and see their quotient. And this should be the output
quotient. And this should be the output
quotient. And this should be the output I'm expecting. So, um, just so I don't
I'm expecting. So, um, just so I don't
I'm expecting. So, um, just so I don't have to keep flicking back and forth to
have to keep flicking back and forth to
have to keep flicking back and forth to this page, I'm going to copy this in
this page, I'm going to copy this in
this page, I'm going to copy this in here. Right. So, if you haven't seen
here. Right. So, if you haven't seen
here. Right. So, if you haven't seen this before, anything with a hash in
this before, anything with a hash in
this before, anything with a hash in front of it is a comment. Now, I've
front of it is a comment. Now, I've
front of it is a comment. Now, I've pasted this into here. It's given me a
pasted this into here. It's given me a
pasted this into here. It's given me a load of red because it doesn't like it
load of red because it doesn't like it
load of red because it doesn't like it cuz actually, I want to keep this as a
cuz actually, I want to keep this as a
cuz actually, I want to keep this as a comment, too.
comment, too.
comment, too. So, I could go through here and I could
So, I could go through here and I could
So, I could go through here and I could put a hash in front of all of these just
put a hash in front of all of these just
put a hash in front of all of these just so I can refer back to what my output
so I can refer back to what my output
so I can refer back to what my output should look like afterwards. or I can
should look like afterwards. or I can
should look like afterwards. or I can highlight everything
highlight everything
highlight everything and I can hold control and press forward
and I can hold control and press forward
and I can hold control and press forward slash and that will do it all in one go.
slash and that will do it all in one go.
slash and that will do it all in one go. Isn't that brilliant? Right. So the
Isn't that brilliant? Right. So the
Isn't that brilliant? Right. So the first thing I'm going to do is uh I'm
first thing I'm going to do is uh I'm
first thing I'm going to do is uh I'm going to take in a variable called
going to take in a variable called
going to take in a variable called number one or num one and I'm going to
number one or num one and I'm going to
number one or num one and I'm going to use an input
use an input
use an input and I'm going to ask the user please
and I'm going to ask the user please
and I'm going to ask the user please input first number. Okay.
input first number. Okay.
input first number. Okay. And I'm going to put a colon space so it
And I'm going to put a colon space so it
And I'm going to put a colon space so it reads a bit better in my terminal. Then
reads a bit better in my terminal. Then
reads a bit better in my terminal. Then I'm going to ask for number two.
Second number.
Okay. Right now I'm just going to print
Okay. Right now I'm just going to print
Okay. Right now I'm just going to print out the following things. So I'm going
out the following things. So I'm going
out the following things. So I'm going to print out the sum.
to print out the sum.
to print out the sum. So the first thing I'm going to I'm
So the first thing I'm going to I'm
So the first thing I'm going to I'm going to have a print statement which is
going to have a print statement which is
going to have a print statement which is simply
simply
simply um sum colon space comma and then num 1
um sum colon space comma and then num 1
um sum colon space comma and then num 1 + num 2. Okay. Now if I run this I
+ num 2. Okay. Now if I run this I
+ num 2. Okay. Now if I run this I should get an error and then we'll
should get an error and then we'll
should get an error and then we'll explain that error.
explain that error.
explain that error. So uh let's call it um let's do 10 + 2.
So uh let's call it um let's do 10 + 2.
So uh let's call it um let's do 10 + 2. Aha.
There we go. Right. So, I've got a sum
There we go. Right. So, I've got a sum
There we go. Right. So, I've got a sum of 102, which doesn't make any sense,
of 102, which doesn't make any sense,
of 102, which doesn't make any sense, does it? Cuz 10 + 2 is not 102. And
does it? Cuz 10 + 2 is not 102. And
does it? Cuz 10 + 2 is not 102. And what's actually happened there is it's
what's actually happened there is it's
what's actually happened there is it's treated both of those inputs as strings.
treated both of those inputs as strings.
treated both of those inputs as strings. And you know, you can add two strings
And you know, you can add two strings
And you know, you can add two strings together. Hello, Rob. And it will
together. Hello, Rob. And it will
together. Hello, Rob. And it will happily put them together. So, what it's
happily put them together. So, what it's
happily put them together. So, what it's done there is it's just treated the 10
done there is it's just treated the 10
done there is it's just treated the 10 as a string and added the two on the
as a string and added the two on the
as a string and added the two on the end. So what I really need to do in
end. So what I really need to do in
end. So what I really need to do in order for for me to do some actual maths
order for for me to do some actual maths
order for for me to do some actual maths on this on these inputs is I need to
on this on these inputs is I need to
on this on these inputs is I need to convert them to integers or floats
convert them to integers or floats
convert them to integers or floats um beforehand. So I'm actually going to
um beforehand. So I'm actually going to
um beforehand. So I'm actually going to convert them now because I'm going to do
convert them now because I'm going to do
convert them now because I'm going to do a quotient here at some point.
a quotient here at some point.
a quotient here at some point. It's likely that whatever ratio I take
It's likely that whatever ratio I take
It's likely that whatever ratio I take of two numbers is not going to be an
of two numbers is not going to be an
of two numbers is not going to be an integer. So I actually want to handle my
integer. So I actually want to handle my
integer. So I actually want to handle my inputs as floats. Okay. So, I'm going to
inputs as floats. Okay. So, I'm going to
inputs as floats. Okay. So, I'm going to I'm going to wrap a float function
I'm going to wrap a float function
I'm going to wrap a float function around my input. And what that will do,
around my input. And what that will do,
around my input. And what that will do, it will take that input from the user
it will take that input from the user
it will take that input from the user and it will immediately call it to a clo
and it will immediately call it to a clo
and it will immediately call it to a clo uh convert to a float. If you're not
uh convert to a float. If you're not
uh convert to a float. If you're not sure what a float is, a float is any
sure what a float is, a float is any
sure what a float is, a float is any number with a decimal place after it.
number with a decimal place after it.
number with a decimal place after it. Um, for example, 1.2 is a float. Okay.
Um, for example, 1.2 is a float. Okay.
Um, for example, 1.2 is a float. Okay. Um, so this time, if I run my script and
Um, so this time, if I run my script and
Um, so this time, if I run my script and I give it 10 and I give it two, it gives
I give it 10 and I give it two, it gives
I give it 10 and I give it two, it gives me 12. And actually you can see it also
me 12. And actually you can see it also
me 12. And actually you can see it also outputs the number as a float as well.
outputs the number as a float as well.
outputs the number as a float as well. That's fine. Okay. So I'm going to go
That's fine. Okay. So I'm going to go
That's fine. Okay. So I'm going to go through these. Let's do let's do the
through these. Let's do let's do the
through these. Let's do let's do the second one which was I think the
second one which was I think the
second one which was I think the difference.
difference.
difference. Oops.
Oops.
Oops. Difference
is num one minus num two.
is num one minus num two.
is num one minus num two. The third one was the product.
The third one was the product.
The third one was the product. Is that right? Yep. product
is num
is num
is num 1 * num 2. I'm going to try and just for
1 * num 2. I'm going to try and just for
1 * num 2. I'm going to try and just for aesthetic purposes and I keep spaces
aesthetic purposes and I keep spaces
aesthetic purposes and I keep spaces between my operators. I spelled printer
between my operators. I spelled printer
between my operators. I spelled printer wrong, guys. Come on.
wrong, guys. Come on.
wrong, guys. Come on. And then finally, I'm going to take the
And then finally, I'm going to take the
And then finally, I'm going to take the quotient or the ratio of one and two.
Um, num one over num two. Let's print
Um, num one over num two. Let's print
Um, num one over num two. Let's print all that out. Let's uh give me a 10. A
all that out. Let's uh give me a 10. A
all that out. Let's uh give me a 10. A two. Oh, no. 10. Then two.
two. Oh, no. 10. Then two.
two. Oh, no. 10. Then two. There we go.
There we go.
There we go. 10 + 2 is 12. 10 - 2 is 8. 10 * 2 is 20.
10 + 2 is 12. 10 - 2 is 8. 10 * 2 is 20.
10 + 2 is 12. 10 - 2 is 8. 10 * 2 is 20. 10 shared by 2 is 5. Um, let's give it
10 shared by 2 is 5. Um, let's give it
10 shared by 2 is 5. Um, let's give it another example where I might get a
another example where I might get a
another example where I might get a decimal place for the quotient. So let's
decimal place for the quotient. So let's
decimal place for the quotient. So let's do
do
do
/ 3. Yeah, there you go. Okay. So by
/ 3. Yeah, there you go. Okay. So by
/ 3. Yeah, there you go. Okay. So by default, Python will give quite a large
default, Python will give quite a large
default, Python will give quite a large number of decimal places. We can format
number of decimal places. We can format
number of decimal places. We can format that. We'll cover that later. Okay.
that. We'll cover that later. Okay.
that. We'll cover that later. Okay. Brilliant. Let's move on to Q2.
