Kind: captions Language: en
Right. Question five.
Right. Question five.
Right. Question five. DNA base count. Ask the user for a DNA
DNA base count. Ask the user for a DNA
DNA base count. Ask the user for a DNA string. Count how many A, T, C, and G
string. Count how many A, T, C, and G
string. Count how many A, T, C, and G bases it contains using a loop. Print
bases it contains using a loop. Print
bases it contains using a loop. Print the results clearly.
the results clearly.
the results clearly. Okay.
Okay. So, the first thing I'm going to
Okay. So, the first thing I'm going to
Okay. So, the first thing I'm going to do here is I'm going to ask the user to
do here is I'm going to ask the user to
do here is I'm going to ask the user to input
input
input a DNA base string.
a DNA base string.
a DNA base string. Okay. And I'm going to create a variable
Okay. And I'm going to create a variable
Okay. And I'm going to create a variable called DNA string.
called DNA string.
called DNA string. And I'm going to say equals input
And I'm going to say equals input
And I'm going to say equals input please
please
please input
input
input a DNA string base string weather.
a DNA string base string weather.
a DNA string base string weather. Okay.
Okay.
Okay. Right.
Right.
Right. So the user will be able to put a whole
So the user will be able to put a whole
So the user will be able to put a whole lot of A's, C's, T's, and G's in there.
lot of A's, C's, T's, and G's in there.
lot of A's, C's, T's, and G's in there. I think what I might do on the fly or I
I think what I might do on the fly or I
I think what I might do on the fly or I might do it here actually is I'm going
might do it here actually is I'm going
might do it here actually is I'm going to do a little bit of
to do a little bit of
to do a little bit of um handling here. I'm just going to say
um handling here. I'm just going to say
um handling here. I'm just going to say DNA string. I'm going to convert it all
DNA string. I'm going to convert it all
DNA string. I'm going to convert it all to upper
to upper
to upper and I'm going to strip
and I'm going to strip
and I'm going to strip any white space. So if they put any any
any white space. So if they put any any
any white space. So if they put any any spaces in I'll get rid of those as well.
spaces in I'll get rid of those as well.
spaces in I'll get rid of those as well. Okay. Right. So the aim of the game here
Okay. Right. So the aim of the game here
Okay. Right. So the aim of the game here is to count how many characters of each
is to count how many characters of each
is to count how many characters of each type A, C, T or G are in the string and
type A, C, T or G are in the string and
type A, C, T or G are in the string and then output that. Okay,
then output that. Okay,
then output that. Okay, let's have a think. Well,
let's have a think. Well,
let's have a think. Well, let's start with the for loop for and I
let's start with the for loop for and I
let's start with the for loop for and I want I want to loop through every
want I want to loop through every
want I want to loop through every character in my DNA string. So for
character in my DNA string. So for
character in my DNA string. So for um base in DNA string.
um base in DNA string.
um base in DNA string. Okay, I am going
Okay, I am going
Okay, I am going Okay, the first thing I'm going to do is
Okay, the first thing I'm going to do is
Okay, the first thing I'm going to do is just print it out. Let's get a sanity
just print it out. Let's get a sanity
just print it out. Let's get a sanity check.
check.
check. Make sure my code works.
Make sure my code works.
Make sure my code works. Excuse me. Um let's let's give a string
Excuse me. Um let's let's give a string
Excuse me. Um let's let's give a string ac GT G t a a c a t.
ac GT G t a a c a t.
ac GT G t a a c a t. And actually, I'm going to copy that so
And actually, I'm going to copy that so
And actually, I'm going to copy that so I don't ever have to
I don't ever have to
I don't ever have to type that in again because I'm lazy.
type that in again because I'm lazy.
type that in again because I'm lazy. Okay. And it's just printed out
Okay. And it's just printed out
Okay. And it's just printed out character by character within the loop.
character by character within the loop.
character by character within the loop. You notice when we do that in the
You notice when we do that in the
You notice when we do that in the console, it starts a new line. Okay.
console, it starts a new line. Okay.
console, it starts a new line. Okay. That's kind of how you know it's
That's kind of how you know it's
That's kind of how you know it's looping.
looping.
looping. But I don't want to do this. I want it
But I don't want to do this. I want it
But I don't want to do this. I want it to count this. So, I've got one, two
to count this. So, I've got one, two
to count this. So, I've got one, two T's, one, two, two C's, one two, three,
T's, one, two, two C's, one two, three,
T's, one, two, two C's, one two, three, four A's, and one, two, three G's. So, I
four A's, and one, two, three G's. So, I
four A's, and one, two, three G's. So, I want that summary somewhere. But first,
want that summary somewhere. But first,
want that summary somewhere. But first, I got to count the things. Okay, so
I got to count the things. Okay, so
I got to count the things. Okay, so let's create a couple of variables in
let's create a couple of variables in
let's create a couple of variables in here.
here.
here. So
So
So the first thing I'm going to do
the first thing I'm going to do
the first thing I'm going to do is
is
is before my loop actually I'm going to
before my loop actually I'm going to
before my loop actually I'm going to create some variables called
create some variables called
create some variables called um
a
a
a equals z b sorry c equals 0
t equals z and G equals Z. That's really
t equals z and G equals Z. That's really
t equals z and G equals Z. That's really now that's really bad coding, right?
now that's really bad coding, right?
now that's really bad coding, right? Because if this code was buried in a
Because if this code was buried in a
Because if this code was buried in a much bigger script, I would have very
much bigger script, I would have very
much bigger script, I would have very little idea what these variable names
little idea what these variable names
little idea what these variable names referred to. So, I'm going to be a bit
referred to. So, I'm going to be a bit
referred to. So, I'm going to be a bit more specific.
more specific.
more specific. I'm going to put a count. And it's a bit
I'm going to put a count. And it's a bit
I'm going to put a count. And it's a bit longwinded,
longwinded,
longwinded, but
but
but it will help me if I'm writing extended
it will help me if I'm writing extended
it will help me if I'm writing extended piece of code. It's a bit overkill in
piece of code. It's a bit overkill in
piece of code. It's a bit overkill in this case because it's going to be very
this case because it's going to be very
this case because it's going to be very obvious what I'm going to need to do.
obvious what I'm going to need to do.
obvious what I'm going to need to do. Right? So, I've defined some empty
Right? So, I've defined some empty
Right? So, I've defined some empty variables or some variables that start
variables or some variables that start
variables or some variables that start at zero for all of my A C's, T's, and
at zero for all of my A C's, T's, and
at zero for all of my A C's, T's, and G's. Now, I want to use a bit of logic.
G's. Now, I want to use a bit of logic.
G's. Now, I want to use a bit of logic. Okay? So, as I loop through my DNA
Okay? So, as I loop through my DNA
Okay? So, as I loop through my DNA string, if base is equal to,
string, if base is equal to,
string, if base is equal to, and remember I've used uppercase
and remember I've used uppercase
and remember I've used uppercase characters,
characters,
characters, then I'm going to do a count. Remember I
then I'm going to do a count. Remember I
then I'm going to do a count. Remember I used the plus equal sign to add stuff to
used the plus equal sign to add stuff to
used the plus equal sign to add stuff to it? Well, I'm just going to increment it
it? Well, I'm just going to increment it
it? Well, I'm just going to increment it by one. Okay. And then I'm going to do l
by one. Okay. And then I'm going to do l
by one. Okay. And then I'm going to do l iff base equals c
iff base equals c
iff base equals c a count plus equals 1.
a count plus equals 1.
a count plus equals 1. Oh, mistake.
Oh, mistake.
Oh, mistake. C count.
L if base equals t.
And you can see I made a deliberate
And you can see I made a deliberate
And you can see I made a deliberate mistake on line 15 with a colon there.
mistake on line 15 with a colon there.
mistake on line 15 with a colon there. It shouldn't be uh t counts equals
It shouldn't be uh t counts equals
It shouldn't be uh t counts equals oops come on plus equals 1. And then
oops come on plus equals 1. And then
oops come on plus equals 1. And then finally
finally
finally base.
Actually, I want to finish this with an
Actually, I want to finish this with an
Actually, I want to finish this with an else
else
else base base
base base
base base G.
And I got to be careful here because the
And I got to be careful here because the
And I got to be careful here because the base is the else statement is slightly
base is the else statement is slightly
base is the else statement is slightly different. So I put the colon after the
different. So I put the colon after the
different. So I put the colon after the else
else
else and do gc count
and do gc count
and do gc count equals one. Okay. So don't get caught
equals one. Okay. So don't get caught
equals one. Okay. So don't get caught out with the with the colon at the end
out with the with the colon at the end
out with the with the colon at the end of your else statements.
of your else statements.
of your else statements. Okay. Then I think I could still have
Okay. Then I think I could still have
Okay. Then I think I could still have used an l if. That would have been fine
used an l if. That would have been fine
used an l if. That would have been fine if you're wondering.
if you're wondering.
if you're wondering. Then once I've counted everything, I'm
Then once I've counted everything, I'm
Then once I've counted everything, I'm going to simply print out an F string
going to simply print out an F string
going to simply print out an F string using all of these counts in um
using all of these counts in um
using all of these counts in um I'm going to be careful here
I'm going to be careful here
I'm going to be careful here because
this will work, but if I give you a
this will work, but if I give you a
this will work, but if I give you a string with any other characters in,
string with any other characters in,
string with any other characters in, what will happen?
what will happen?
what will happen? It will add them to the G count. So,
It will add them to the G count. So,
It will add them to the G count. So, actually, this is a bit naughty. I'm not
actually, this is a bit naughty. I'm not
actually, this is a bit naughty. I'm not going to do this because if if for some
going to do this because if if for some
going to do this because if if for some reason there was an X or an N or
reason there was an X or an N or
reason there was an X or an N or something slipped in there, it would
something slipped in there, it would
something slipped in there, it would count them as G. So, I am going to use
count them as G. So, I am going to use
count them as G. So, I am going to use an L if. Come on, brain, wake up.
an L if. Come on, brain, wake up.
an L if. Come on, brain, wake up. Base
Base
Base equals
equals
equals G
G
G G count plus equals.
G count plus equals.
G count plus equals. Okay, now let's print all this out. And
Okay, now let's print all this out. And
Okay, now let's print all this out. And I am going to use my good friend, the F
I am going to use my good friend, the F
I am going to use my good friend, the F string
string
string here. I'm going to put an a colon and
here. I'm going to put an a colon and
here. I'm going to put an a colon and I'm going to put open open curly
I'm going to put open open curly
I'm going to put open open curly brackets a count. Put my a count
brackets a count. Put my a count
brackets a count. Put my a count variable in there and then comma
variable in there and then comma
variable in there and then comma um oh no c colon count
um oh no c colon count
um oh no c colon count t colon curly bracket t count
t colon curly bracket t count
t colon curly bracket t count and then finally
and then finally
and then finally g colon gc count. Don't forget to close
g colon gc count. Don't forget to close
g colon gc count. Don't forget to close your parenthesis. Not parenthesis.
Quotation mark. Go on. I think for that
Quotation mark. Go on. I think for that
Quotation mark. Go on. I think for that one. Let's run it again now. Um, I'm
one. Let's run it again now. Um, I'm
one. Let's run it again now. Um, I'm going to paste that in.
going to paste that in.
going to paste that in. There we go. And did it do it right? I
There we go. And did it do it right? I
There we go. And did it do it right? I think that's right.
Should have been six A's. One,
Should have been six A's. One,
Should have been six A's. One, two, three,
two, three,
two, three, four, five, six. Yes, that's right.
four, five, six. Yes, that's right.
four, five, six. Yes, that's right. So,
So,
So, there you go. Um, I've got a for loop
there you go. Um, I've got a for loop
there you go. Um, I've got a for loop with an if and a series of l ifs. I
with an if and a series of l ifs. I
with an if and a series of l ifs. I didn't use the else.
didn't use the else.
didn't use the else. Okay. I could have done something like
Oops.
Oops.
Oops. I could do something like this very
I could do something like this very
I could do something like this very quickly.
Let me just bring this down a bit.
Let me just bring this down a bit.
Let me just bring this down a bit. I could have done something like
I could have done something like
I could have done something like Oh, come on, Rob. I'm pressing the wrong
Oh, come on, Rob. I'm pressing the wrong
Oh, come on, Rob. I'm pressing the wrong but I'm used to using I've been writing
but I'm used to using I've been writing
but I'm used to using I've been writing R all week. So, I'm using shift and
R all week. So, I'm using shift and
R all week. So, I'm using shift and enter to run my code. Um, else I could
enter to run my code. Um, else I could
enter to run my code. Um, else I could have used
have used
have used um I could have another variable. Let's
um I could have another variable. Let's
um I could have another variable. Let's put it in here. is called error count
put it in here. is called error count
put it in here. is called error count equals zero.
equals zero.
equals zero. I could have put
I could have put
I could have put error plus equal one.
I got a bug here. Okay. And then I could
I got a bug here. Okay. And then I could
I got a bug here. Okay. And then I could have just put
have just put
have just put um error
counts.
counts.
counts. And then if I run this,
And then if I run this,
And then if I run this, hang on. Let me run it this way.
hang on. Let me run it this way.
hang on. Let me run it this way. Oh, I got a bug on line 10. Let's have a
Oh, I got a bug on line 10. Let's have a
Oh, I got a bug on line 10. Let's have a look at that one. That should have been
look at that one. That should have been
look at that one. That should have been a zero. My fault.
a zero. My fault.
a zero. My fault. This time if I put that string in and I
This time if I put that string in and I
This time if I put that string in and I put like xxx at the end of it.
put like xxx at the end of it.
put like xxx at the end of it. Ah,
got error on line 23. That's because
got error on line 23. That's because
got error on line 23. That's because I've used the wrong variable name. Come
I've used the wrong variable name. Come
I've used the wrong variable name. Come on, Rob.
on, Rob.
on, Rob. Let's run it again.
There we go. I got six errors there.
There we go. I got six errors there.
There we go. I got six errors there. Right. Took my time with that one.
