Kind: captions Language: en
Okay, welcome to week 4733.
Okay, welcome to week 4733.
Okay, welcome to week 4733. This is quite an exciting week, isn't
This is quite an exciting week, isn't
This is quite an exciting week, isn't it? Because we're going to take all of
it? Because we're going to take all of
it? Because we're going to take all of that lovely stuff that you've done in
that lovely stuff that you've done in
that lovely stuff that you've done in the first couple of weeks, um, you know,
the first couple of weeks, um, you know,
the first couple of weeks, um, you know, lists, list slicing, strings, reversing
lists, list slicing, strings, reversing
lists, list slicing, strings, reversing strings, um, logic, loops, and we're
strings, um, logic, loops, and we're
strings, um, logic, loops, and we're going to start to to build real stuff
going to start to to build real stuff
going to start to to build real stuff out of this. And probably the biggest
out of this. And probably the biggest
out of this. And probably the biggest conceptual addition that we're going to
conceptual addition that we're going to
conceptual addition that we're going to make this week or the two two key things
make this week or the two two key things
make this week or the two two key things I really want to discuss with you are
I really want to discuss with you are
I really want to discuss with you are going to be functions,
going to be functions,
going to be functions, okay? And file input and output. So
okay? And file input and output. So
okay? And file input and output. So after this week, you will almost be
after this week, you will almost be
after this week, you will almost be fully armed as coders to pretty much
fully armed as coders to pretty much
fully armed as coders to pretty much tackle any set of data that we might
tackle any set of data that we might
tackle any set of data that we might give you. Okay? There'll be more to
give you. Okay? There'll be more to
give you. Okay? There'll be more to learn, but I would say reading a file
learn, but I would say reading a file
learn, but I would say reading a file and then doing something with the data,
and then doing something with the data,
and then doing something with the data, then putting into another file is a
then putting into another file is a
then putting into another file is a pretty strong staple for coding, right?
pretty strong staple for coding, right?
pretty strong staple for coding, right? Uh because it really means you can get
Uh because it really means you can get
Uh because it really means you can get your fingers on very real data sets that
your fingers on very real data sets that
your fingers on very real data sets that are out there in the wild right now,
are out there in the wild right now,
are out there in the wild right now, guys. Go and have a look at them. Um so,
guys. Go and have a look at them. Um so,
guys. Go and have a look at them. Um so, this is quite an exciting week for me,
this is quite an exciting week for me,
this is quite an exciting week for me, right? I hope I' hope I've got you
right? I hope I' hope I've got you
right? I hope I' hope I've got you jazzed for this. Let's start. And I've
jazzed for this. Let's start. And I've
jazzed for this. Let's start. And I've got Where's my canvas gone? It's over
got Where's my canvas gone? It's over
got Where's my canvas gone? It's over here. Let's take a look at questions.
here. Let's take a look at questions.
here. Let's take a look at questions. Zoom in a little bit. Right. So, the
Zoom in a little bit. Right. So, the
Zoom in a little bit. Right. So, the first couple of um problems here are
first couple of um problems here are
first couple of um problems here are just really to get the fingers moving
just really to get the fingers moving
just really to get the fingers moving and uh get the juices flowing and then
and uh get the juices flowing and then
and uh get the juices flowing and then we're going to start looking at these
we're going to start looking at these
we're going to start looking at these mini project. I'm not going to give you
mini project. I'm not going to give you
mini project. I'm not going to give you videos for all of these. I'm going to
videos for all of these. I'm going to
videos for all of these. I'm going to make you sweat. I've got to kind of
make you sweat. I've got to kind of
make you sweat. I've got to kind of balance um the work that I'm giving you
balance um the work that I'm giving you
balance um the work that I'm giving you uh with the fact that
uh with the fact that
uh with the fact that um there are also assessments for this
um there are also assessments for this
um there are also assessments for this module ongoing. So, you may not have
module ongoing. So, you may not have
module ongoing. So, you may not have submitted to your first assignment yet.
submitted to your first assignment yet.
submitted to your first assignment yet. I will be shortly releasing the second
I will be shortly releasing the second
I will be shortly releasing the second assignment as well. So, I do want you to
assignment as well. So, I do want you to
assignment as well. So, I do want you to prioritize your assignments, but at the
prioritize your assignments, but at the
prioritize your assignments, but at the same time, you've got to kind of engage
same time, you've got to kind of engage
same time, you've got to kind of engage with this in order to be able to do the
with this in order to be able to do the
with this in order to be able to do the second assignment. So, all I've got to
second assignment. So, all I've got to
second assignment. So, all I've got to do here is just make sure I don't melt
do here is just make sure I don't melt
do here is just make sure I don't melt your brains. Okay. Um, if you get uh any
your brains. Okay. Um, if you get uh any
your brains. Okay. Um, if you get uh any problems then make sure you're at the
problems then make sure you're at the
problems then make sure you're at the workshops and make sure you speak to
workshops and make sure you speak to
workshops and make sure you speak to myself or one of the demonstrators to
myself or one of the demonstrators to
myself or one of the demonstrators to really get these key concepts into your
really get these key concepts into your
really get these key concepts into your minds this week. Okay.
