Kind: captions Language: en
All right, let's have a look at question
All right, let's have a look at question
All right, let's have a look at question one. Um, we're going to write our first
one. Um, we're going to write our first
one. Um, we're going to write our first function and we're going to define a
function and we're going to define a
function and we're going to define a function. Uh, so I'll show you the
function. Uh, so I'll show you the
function. Uh, so I'll show you the syntax for that very very shortly. And
syntax for that very very shortly. And
syntax for that very very shortly. And I'll explain what a function actually is
I'll explain what a function actually is
I'll explain what a function actually is as well. um and why there were a couple
as well. um and why there were a couple
as well. um and why there were a couple of subtle differences between what we
of subtle differences between what we
of subtle differences between what we would usually do when we're outputting
would usually do when we're outputting
would usually do when we're outputting stuff
stuff
stuff uh or we're interrogating our scripts
uh or we're interrogating our scripts
uh or we're interrogating our scripts using something like a print statement
using something like a print statement
using something like a print statement and what on earth is this return
and what on earth is this return
and what on earth is this return statement which we're actually going to
statement which we're actually going to
statement which we're actually going to use to replace the print statement. So
use to replace the print statement. So
use to replace the print statement. So we'll cover that as well very very
we'll cover that as well very very
we'll cover that as well very very quickly. Um let's write this function. I
quickly. Um let's write this function. I
quickly. Um let's write this function. I want a function called triple number and
want a function called triple number and
want a function called triple number and it's going to take in an input which is
it's going to take in an input which is
it's going to take in an input which is a number and it's simply going to
a number and it's simply going to
a number and it's simply going to calculate
calculate
calculate three times that number and spit it back
three times that number and spit it back
three times that number and spit it back out. Okay. And we're going to test that
out. Okay. And we're going to test that
out. Okay. And we're going to test that on a few different inputs here. Okay. So
on a few different inputs here. Okay. So
on a few different inputs here. Okay. So just a quick um comment on the syntax.
just a quick um comment on the syntax.
just a quick um comment on the syntax. So this is whenever I see anything like
So this is whenever I see anything like
So this is whenever I see anything like this with the brackets and a value
this with the brackets and a value
this with the brackets and a value inside the brackets. You should probably
inside the brackets. You should probably
inside the brackets. You should probably recognize that by now as
recognize that by now as
recognize that by now as something which does something in
something which does something in
something which does something in Python. And
Python. And
Python. And increasingly we're going to start
increasingly we're going to start
increasingly we're going to start calling things that do something
calling things that do something
calling things that do something functions, right? And we can write our
functions, right? And we can write our
functions, right? And we can write our own functions as well. Isn't that great?
own functions as well. Isn't that great?
own functions as well. Isn't that great? So I know you've used things like print
So I know you've used things like print
So I know you've used things like print that's a function. Um if you use the
that's a function. Um if you use the
that's a function. Um if you use the math module, you did math mean or
math module, you did math mean or
math module, you did math mean or something like that. Open brackets
something like that. Open brackets
something like that. Open brackets close. That's a function. Actually,
close. That's a function. Actually,
close. That's a function. Actually, confusingly, they sometimes call that
confusingly, they sometimes call that
confusingly, they sometimes call that method if it's associated with um
method if it's associated with um
method if it's associated with um another class or something like that. I
another class or something like that. I
another class or something like that. I don't want to get into that right now.
don't want to get into that right now.
don't want to get into that right now. We'll call them functions for now. Okay.
We'll call them functions for now. Okay.
We'll call them functions for now. Okay. So, anytime you've got open brackets,
So, anytime you've got open brackets,
So, anytime you've got open brackets, chuck in a value and this placeholder
chuck in a value and this placeholder
chuck in a value and this placeholder for what we're putting in this x, we
for what we're putting in this x, we
for what we're putting in this x, we call them parameters. Okay? So, it
call them parameters. Okay? So, it
call them parameters. Okay? So, it doesn't have to take just a one. It can
doesn't have to take just a one. It can
doesn't have to take just a one. It can be 1, 2, 3, 4. It can take in lots and
be 1, 2, 3, 4. It can take in lots and
be 1, 2, 3, 4. It can take in lots and lots of different parameters. They don't
lots of different parameters. They don't
lots of different parameters. They don't just have to be numbers. They can be
just have to be numbers. They can be
just have to be numbers. They can be strings, booleans. There can be other
strings, booleans. There can be other
strings, booleans. There can be other functions as well. Okay. Um, well,
functions as well. Okay. Um, well,
functions as well. Okay. Um, well, that'll blow your minds later. Okay,
that'll blow your minds later. Okay,
that'll blow your minds later. Okay, let's answer this question. Let me get
let's answer this question. Let me get
let's answer this question. Let me get up the Visual Studio Code here. So, I'm
up the Visual Studio Code here. So, I'm
up the Visual Studio Code here. So, I'm going to write I'll comment this. Write
going to write I'll comment this. Write
going to write I'll comment this. Write a function that takes
a function that takes
a function that takes a numerical input X
a numerical input X
a numerical input X and
and
and returns. Return is a keyword here. I'll
returns. Return is a keyword here. I'll
returns. Return is a keyword here. I'll come back to that in a second.
come back to that in a second.
come back to that in a second. um a value three times x. Okay. Right.
um a value three times x. Okay. Right.
um a value three times x. Okay. Right. So, here's the most important thing I'm
So, here's the most important thing I'm
So, here's the most important thing I'm going to tell you in this video and that
going to tell you in this video and that
going to tell you in this video and that is the syntax for creating your own
is the syntax for creating your own
is the syntax for creating your own functions. Can any of you guess def
functions. Can any of you guess def
functions. Can any of you guess def right? And you can see it's immediately
right? And you can see it's immediately
right? And you can see it's immediately gone blue. Anytime I use those three
gone blue. Anytime I use those three
gone blue. Anytime I use those three characters, def Python knows I'm about
characters, def Python knows I'm about
characters, def Python knows I'm about to give it some knowledge, right? So I'm
to give it some knowledge, right? So I'm
to give it some knowledge, right? So I'm about to create something that I'm going
about to create something that I'm going
about to create something that I'm going to be able to use over and over again if
to be able to use over and over again if
to be able to use over and over again if I want to by calling the name of the
I want to by calling the name of the
I want to by calling the name of the function that I define. So let's define
function that I define. So let's define
function that I define. So let's define the name of this function. Let's call it
the name of this function. Let's call it
the name of this function. Let's call it triple
triple
triple number. Now uh a note on naming
number. Now uh a note on naming
number. Now uh a note on naming conventions for functions in Python.
conventions for functions in Python.
conventions for functions in Python. They need to be reasonably descriptive.
They need to be reasonably descriptive.
They need to be reasonably descriptive. So I've used a two a two-word term to
So I've used a two a two-word term to
So I've used a two a two-word term to describe this. Um, don't call it
describe this. Um, don't call it
describe this. Um, don't call it function one or function two or
function one or function two or
function one or function two or something like that. That's not very
something like that. That's not very
something like that. That's not very helpful for anyone else trying to read
helpful for anyone else trying to read
helpful for anyone else trying to read your code. Triple number is what I've
your code. Triple number is what I've
your code. Triple number is what I've called it. And if they are two words or
called it. And if they are two words or
called it. And if they are two words or more than two words,
more than two words,
more than two words, don't use spaces,
don't use spaces,
don't use spaces, excuse me, you should use the underscore
excuse me, you should use the underscore
excuse me, you should use the underscore character. Okay. Um, right. So, the next
character. Okay. Um, right. So, the next
character. Okay. Um, right. So, the next thing I need to do is actually have an
thing I need to do is actually have an
thing I need to do is actually have an open bracket and I'm going to put an X
open bracket and I'm going to put an X
open bracket and I'm going to put an X in there. And that's going to tell my
in there. And that's going to tell my
in there. And that's going to tell my function
function
function that when I use it, I'm expecting
that when I use it, I'm expecting
that when I use it, I'm expecting the user to put an X in there. Okay. And
the user to put an X in there. Okay. And
the user to put an X in there. Okay. And then I'm going to do something
then I'm going to do something
then I'm going to do something um a bit different. Normally, if you
um a bit different. Normally, if you
um a bit different. Normally, if you doing this scripting up to now, I would
doing this scripting up to now, I would
doing this scripting up to now, I would have done print X or three * X. Okay.
have done print X or three * X. Okay.
have done print X or three * X. Okay. And that would work, but it's not what
And that would work, but it's not what
And that would work, but it's not what we want. Okay? Instead, I'm going to do
we want. Okay? Instead, I'm going to do
we want. Okay? Instead, I'm going to do return.
return.
return. And you can see it's gone a special
And you can see it's gone a special
And you can see it's gone a special shade of purple there. 3 * x. Right now,
shade of purple there. 3 * x. Right now,
shade of purple there. 3 * x. Right now, it's pro to show you the difference
it's pro to show you the difference
it's pro to show you the difference between what I've just done there. It's
between what I've just done there. It's
between what I've just done there. It's probably easier for me to show you um
probably easier for me to show you um
probably easier for me to show you um because if I run this now,
because if I run this now,
because if I run this now, nothing will happen. All right. And the
nothing will happen. All right. And the
nothing will happen. All right. And the reason it hasn't happened because even
reason it hasn't happened because even
reason it hasn't happened because even though I've defined the function, I
though I've defined the function, I
though I've defined the function, I haven't called it anywhere in my script.
haven't called it anywhere in my script.
haven't called it anywhere in my script. So if I want to use my my own function
So if I want to use my my own function
So if I want to use my my own function now I want I'm going to call triple
now I want I'm going to call triple
now I want I'm going to call triple number and let's just give it let's just
number and let's just give it let's just
number and let's just give it let's just throw in a number now let's call it 10.
throw in a number now let's call it 10.
throw in a number now let's call it 10. So I'm expecting 30 to be returned. Um
So I'm expecting 30 to be returned. Um
So I'm expecting 30 to be returned. Um let's put that there you go. Now you'll
let's put that there you go. Now you'll
let's put that there you go. Now you'll notice that still nothing has happened
notice that still nothing has happened
notice that still nothing has happened and that's because I'm using this return
and that's because I'm using this return
and that's because I'm using this return rather than um a print statement. So it
rather than um a print statement. So it
rather than um a print statement. So it has done this but because I haven't
has done this but because I haven't
has done this but because I haven't stored what I've returned anywhere let's
stored what I've returned anywhere let's
stored what I've returned anywhere let's call let's create a new variable called
call let's create a new variable called
call let's create a new variable called answer equals
answer equals
answer equals and then I'm going to print out the
and then I'm going to print out the
and then I'm going to print out the answer
answer
answer then it will work and you see I get the
then it will work and you see I get the
then it will work and you see I get the 30 there. Now, that seems a bit long-
30 there. Now, that seems a bit long-
30 there. Now, that seems a bit long- winded. Um, okay. I could have perhaps
winded. Um, okay. I could have perhaps
winded. Um, okay. I could have perhaps done print
done print
done print triple number. That would have done the
triple number. That would have done the
triple number. That would have done the same thing. Okay.
same thing. Okay.
same thing. Okay. Yeah. So, it seems a bit longwinded, but
Yeah. So, it seems a bit longwinded, but
Yeah. So, it seems a bit longwinded, but actually it's not because truthfully, we
actually it's not because truthfully, we
actually it's not because truthfully, we very rarely print stuff out in our code
very rarely print stuff out in our code
very rarely print stuff out in our code when we start to get multiple lines of
when we start to get multiple lines of
when we start to get multiple lines of code because we don't really care as
code because we don't really care as
code because we don't really care as long we we care that it does the
long we we care that it does the
long we we care that it does the calculation and we're satisfied that it
calculation and we're satisfied that it
calculation and we're satisfied that it will do that in the background and then
will do that in the background and then
will do that in the background and then we'll go and do something else. So what
we'll go and do something else. So what
we'll go and do something else. So what the most important thing is the
the most important thing is the
the most important thing is the difference between the return and the
difference between the return and the
difference between the return and the print statement is the return allows it
print statement is the return allows it
print statement is the return allows it to be saved to another variable. Uh
to be saved to another variable. Uh
to be saved to another variable. Uh answer equals triple number x. Okay. And
answer equals triple number x. Okay. And
answer equals triple number x. Okay. And you know I could run that. Doesn't
you know I could run that. Doesn't
you know I could run that. Doesn't matter. Oh made a mistake. Um I got
matter. Oh made a mistake. Um I got
matter. Oh made a mistake. Um I got rather than use x got put 10 in there.
rather than use x got put 10 in there.
rather than use x got put 10 in there. Okay. So there's a slight nuance there
Okay. So there's a slight nuance there
Okay. So there's a slight nuance there between print and and return. Um you're
between print and and return. Um you're
between print and and return. Um you're going to use return with your functions.
going to use return with your functions.
going to use return with your functions. Okay. If I were to do something like
Okay. If I were to do something like
Okay. If I were to do something like this, print
this, print
this, print um three times uh there three times x
um three times uh there three times x
um three times uh there three times x instead, what do you think would happen?
instead, what do you think would happen?
instead, what do you think would happen? It would give you the same thing.
It would give you the same thing.
It would give you the same thing. However, if I were to print out answer
However, if I were to print out answer
However, if I were to print out answer afterwards,
it would do nothing. It won't have added
it would do nothing. It won't have added
it would do nothing. It won't have added anything into my new variable. Okay?
anything into my new variable. Okay?
anything into my new variable. Okay? Okay, so even though it's actually done
Okay, so even though it's actually done
Okay, so even though it's actually done the print statement, it's returned none.
the print statement, it's returned none.
the print statement, it's returned none. Okay, so you can still print within the
Okay, so you can still print within the
Okay, so you can still print within the function, but you still have to return
function, but you still have to return
function, but you still have to return the value.
the value.
the value. I'll return.
Okay. Right. So I'm really laboring this
Okay. Right. So I'm really laboring this
Okay. Right. So I'm really laboring this point about using the return statement
point about using the return statement
point about using the return statement here. Okay. All right. I have solved
here. Okay. All right. I have solved
here. Okay. All right. I have solved question one. Let's go and take a look
question one. Let's go and take a look
question one. Let's go and take a look at question two.
