Kind: captions Language: en
Right, let's keep going. Question three,
Right, let's keep going. Question three,
Right, let's keep going. Question three, new file. Question three.py.
Here we go. Even or odd. Oh, right.
Here we go. Even or odd. Oh, right.
Here we go. Even or odd. Oh, right. Exciting stuff. So, we are going to
Exciting stuff. So, we are going to
Exciting stuff. So, we are going to start looking at conditional statements
start looking at conditional statements
start looking at conditional statements now.
now.
now. So a conditional statement is anything
So a conditional statement is anything
So a conditional statement is anything where I need to compare two things to to
where I need to compare two things to to
where I need to compare two things to to each other and make a decision on what
each other and make a decision on what
each other and make a decision on what to do next based on the result. So for
to do next based on the result. So for
to do next based on the result. So for example I could say if this number is
example I could say if this number is
example I could say if this number is odd do this or if this number is even do
odd do this or if this number is even do
odd do this or if this number is even do this. Um so what we're going to do is
this. Um so what we're going to do is
this. Um so what we're going to do is simply in this case
simply in this case
simply in this case decide whether it is odd or even and
decide whether it is odd or even and
decide whether it is odd or even and then print that to the user whether it's
then print that to the user whether it's
then print that to the user whether it's odd or even. Okay. So, let me just um
odd or even. Okay. So, let me just um
odd or even. Okay. So, let me just um let me just copy and paste this into a
let me just copy and paste this into a
let me just copy and paste this into a new script here. Here we go. Comment it
new script here. Here we go. Comment it
new script here. Here we go. Comment it all. Control and forward slash will
all. Control and forward slash will
all. Control and forward slash will comment everything.
comment everything.
comment everything. Right. So, I'm going to take another
Right. So, I'm going to take another
Right. So, I'm going to take another input from the user and I'm just going
input from the user and I'm just going
input from the user and I'm just going to let's just call it input. Actually,
to let's just call it input. Actually,
to let's just call it input. Actually, I'm not going to call it input um
I'm not going to call it input um
I'm not going to call it input um because that is a function input.
because that is a function input.
because that is a function input. Let's call it even
Let's call it even
Let's call it even or odd
or odd
or odd equals input.
And
I'm going to
I'm going to
I'm going to do please
do please
do please input an even or odd number
and I want it to be an integer in this
and I want it to be an integer in this
and I want it to be an integer in this case. So I'm going to wrap this in an
case. So I'm going to wrap this in an
case. So I'm going to wrap this in an integer
integer
integer statement so that it will convert that
statement so that it will convert that
statement so that it will convert that input to an integer. So, right. Okay.
input to an integer. So, right. Okay.
input to an integer. So, right. Okay. So, let me let me just think about this
So, let me let me just think about this
So, let me let me just think about this for a second. So, how are we going to
for a second. So, how are we going to
for a second. So, how are we going to decide if the number is even or odd?
decide if the number is even or odd?
decide if the number is even or odd? Well, what do we know about even
Well, what do we know about even
Well, what do we know about even numbers? H I know that if I divide any
numbers? H I know that if I divide any
numbers? H I know that if I divide any even number by two,
even number by two,
even number by two, then I won't have anything left over.
then I won't have anything left over.
then I won't have anything left over. two will always go into an even number
two will always go into an even number
two will always go into an even number an an integer number of times. Okay. So,
an an integer number of times. Okay. So,
an an integer number of times. Okay. So, how do I translate that into code? Well,
how do I translate that into code? Well,
how do I translate that into code? Well, I'm going to use what's called an if
I'm going to use what's called an if
I'm going to use what's called an if statement. Okay. So, if
statement. Okay. So, if
statement. Okay. So, if even
even
even or odd
or odd
or odd and now I kind of want to say is
and now I kind of want to say is
and now I kind of want to say is divisible by two. Now, there's a very
divisible by two. Now, there's a very
divisible by two. Now, there's a very form formal way of doing that in Python.
form formal way of doing that in Python.
form formal way of doing that in Python. And I'm going to show you a new operator
And I'm going to show you a new operator
And I'm going to show you a new operator now. So we've done plus, minus, divise,
now. So we've done plus, minus, divise,
now. So we've done plus, minus, divise, and um and multiply. But I'm going to
and um and multiply. But I'm going to
and um and multiply. But I'm going to show you the modulo operator, which is
show you the modulo operator, which is
show you the modulo operator, which is actually a percentage sign.
actually a percentage sign.
actually a percentage sign. And what this is going to do, if I
And what this is going to do, if I
And what this is going to do, if I modulo 2, that is going to simply give
modulo 2, that is going to simply give
modulo 2, that is going to simply give me the remainder. So if I if I did if I
me the remainder. So if I if I did if I
me the remainder. So if I if I did if I entered a number of 10
entered a number of 10
entered a number of 10 my 10 modulo2 should be zero because
my 10 modulo2 should be zero because
my 10 modulo2 should be zero because there are there's nothing left over okay
there are there's nothing left over okay
there are there's nothing left over okay if I did seven
if I did seven
if I did seven I should have a a response of seven
I should have a a response of seven
I should have a a response of seven modulo 2 as one okay because 10 two
modulo 2 as one okay because 10 two
modulo 2 as one okay because 10 two doesn't go into seven an even number of
doesn't go into seven an even number of
doesn't go into seven an even number of times there'll be one left over okay so
times there'll be one left over okay so
times there'll be one left over okay so okay so If even or odd modul 2 two is
okay so If even or odd modul 2 two is
okay so If even or odd modul 2 two is equal
equal
equal or identical to zero. In other words, it
or identical to zero. In other words, it
or identical to zero. In other words, it does go in an even number of times.
does go in an even number of times.
does go in an even number of times. Then oops,
Then oops,
Then oops, didn't want to do that. Get rid of that.
I accidentally ran my Python interpreter
I accidentally ran my Python interpreter
I accidentally ran my Python interpreter there.
there.
there. Then I want to print
Then I want to print
Then I want to print even or odd
even or odd
even or odd is even and that's going to be in
is even and that's going to be in
is even and that's going to be in quotes. Okay.
quotes. Okay.
quotes. Okay. Right now there's only there's only one
Right now there's only there's only one
Right now there's only there's only one other alternative here and that is if
other alternative here and that is if
other alternative here and that is if it's not even it must be odd. So I'm
it's not even it must be odd. So I'm
it's not even it must be odd. So I'm going to finish off this if statement
going to finish off this if statement
going to finish off this if statement with something you'll see all over the
with something you'll see all over the
with something you'll see all over the place. Um it's an else statement. Okay.
place. Um it's an else statement. Okay.
place. Um it's an else statement. Okay. So else colon enter and then I'm going
So else colon enter and then I'm going
So else colon enter and then I'm going to print even or print
to print even or print
to print even or print ah
ah
ah even or odds
is odd. Okay. Now a couple of things to
is odd. Okay. Now a couple of things to
is odd. Okay. Now a couple of things to note here. Firstly in this if statement
note here. Firstly in this if statement
note here. Firstly in this if statement where I've compared the modulo of your
where I've compared the modulo of your
where I've compared the modulo of your input number to two and sorry the modulo
input number to two and sorry the modulo
input number to two and sorry the modulo of the input number um to zero.
of the input number um to zero.
of the input number um to zero. You'll notice I've used a double equal
You'll notice I've used a double equal
You'll notice I've used a double equal sign. That is critical. Okay. If you
sign. That is critical. Okay. If you
sign. That is critical. Okay. If you don't use a double equal sign when
don't use a double equal sign when
don't use a double equal sign when you're comparing things, you will get an
you're comparing things, you will get an
you're comparing things, you will get an error because if you don't use a double
error because if you don't use a double
error because if you don't use a double equal sign, essentially you're trying to
equal sign, essentially you're trying to
equal sign, essentially you're trying to assign the number zero to this bit of
assign the number zero to this bit of
assign the number zero to this bit of logic here in the same way you'd use an
logic here in the same way you'd use an
logic here in the same way you'd use an equal a single equal sign to assign a
equal a single equal sign to assign a
equal a single equal sign to assign a number to a variable. Okay? When you're
number to a variable. Okay? When you're
number to a variable. Okay? When you're comparing things, you have to use the
comparing things, you have to use the
comparing things, you have to use the double equal sign. So be be on the
double equal sign. So be be on the
double equal sign. So be be on the lookout for bugs associated with that.
lookout for bugs associated with that.
lookout for bugs associated with that. In fact, I'm going I'm going to do that
In fact, I'm going I'm going to do that
In fact, I'm going I'm going to do that now. I'm going to generate the bug so
now. I'm going to generate the bug so
now. I'm going to generate the bug so you can see it. Let's run it. There we
you can see it. Let's run it. There we
you can see it. Let's run it. There we go. So I got a syntax error. cannot
go. So I got a syntax error. cannot
go. So I got a syntax error. cannot assign to expression here and it does
assign to expression here and it does
assign to expression here and it does say maybe you want double equals instead
say maybe you want double equals instead
say maybe you want double equals instead of equals. Okay, so Python is is quite
of equals. Okay, so Python is is quite
of equals. Okay, so Python is is quite helpful sometimes. Um let's run it.
helpful sometimes. Um let's run it.
helpful sometimes. Um let's run it. Um let's put an even number in of 10. 10
Um let's put an even number in of 10. 10
Um let's put an even number in of 10. 10 is even. Let's try again.
is even. Let's try again.
is even. Let's try again. Let's put seven in. It's odd. Okay, so I
Let's put seven in. It's odd. Okay, so I
Let's put seven in. It's odd. Okay, so I have now completed question three.
