Kind: captions Language: en
Okay, let's move on to question four.
Let's flick back and see what we're
Let's flick back and see what we're
Let's flick back and see what we're doing. A grade classifier. Okay,
doing. A grade classifier. Okay,
doing. A grade classifier. Okay, so let me read the question. Prompt for
so let me read the question. Prompt for
so let me read the question. Prompt for a student mark between zero and 100 and
a student mark between zero and 100 and
a student mark between zero and 100 and then use if l if or else. We've already
then use if l if or else. We've already
then use if l if or else. We've already we've already encountered if and else
we've already encountered if and else
we've already encountered if and else previously. Um we've got this lf to
previously. Um we've got this lf to
previously. Um we've got this lf to worry about now. uh to print the grade
worry about now. uh to print the grade
worry about now. uh to print the grade bands. H and I've been given my bands
bands. H and I've been given my bands
bands. H and I've been given my bands there. 70 or above is distinction. 60 to
there. 70 or above is distinction. 60 to
there. 70 or above is distinction. 60 to 69 merits. 50 to 59 pass. Anything below
69 merits. 50 to 59 pass. Anything below
69 merits. 50 to 59 pass. Anything below 50 is a fail. Um incidentally, they are
50 is a fail. Um incidentally, they are
50 is a fail. Um incidentally, they are the same bands um that we apply to you
the same bands um that we apply to you
the same bands um that we apply to you guys when we mark your assessments. And
guys when we mark your assessments. And
guys when we mark your assessments. And our example output there is if you get
our example output there is if you get
our example output there is if you get if you if they enter a mark of 65, they
if you if they enter a mark of 65, they
if you if they enter a mark of 65, they should get the merit. Okay. So, let's um
should get the merit. Okay. So, let's um
should get the merit. Okay. So, let's um let's copy that into here.
let's copy that into here.
let's copy that into here. And
And
And oh, there we go. Commented out. Right,
oh, there we go. Commented out. Right,
oh, there we go. Commented out. Right, let's think about the logic for this
let's think about the logic for this
let's think about the logic for this one. Well, let's let's get our grade
one. Well, let's let's get our grade
one. Well, let's let's get our grade first. Um, it's going to be again a
first. Um, it's going to be again a
first. Um, it's going to be again a float input.
float input.
float input. Please input students grade.
Please input students grade.
Please input students grade. Okay. So, I'm going to take the grade
Okay. So, I'm going to take the grade
Okay. So, I'm going to take the grade from the user and I'm going to convert
from the user and I'm going to convert
from the user and I'm going to convert it to a float. So, the next thing I need
it to a float. So, the next thing I need
it to a float. So, the next thing I need to do, so previously when we did odd or
to do, so previously when we did odd or
to do, so previously when we did odd or even, there were only two cases. So I
even, there were only two cases. So I
even, there were only two cases. So I only needed if or else. This time I need
only needed if or else. This time I need
only needed if or else. This time I need a couple of extra statements um so that
a couple of extra statements um so that
a couple of extra statements um so that I can apply all of these criteria in
I can apply all of these criteria in
I can apply all of these criteria in turn. Okay. So first I'm going to start
turn. Okay. So first I'm going to start
turn. Okay. So first I'm going to start my if statement to begin with. So if
my if statement to begin with. So if
my if statement to begin with. So if grade is equal uh sorry now I' got to be
grade is equal uh sorry now I' got to be
grade is equal uh sorry now I' got to be careful now is 70 or above. Right. So to
careful now is 70 or above. Right. So to
careful now is 70 or above. Right. So to do 70 or above is actually the greater
do 70 or above is actually the greater
do 70 or above is actually the greater than symbol and equals. Okay. And the
than symbol and equals. Okay. And the
than symbol and equals. Okay. And the equals is important because that will
equals is important because that will
equals is important because that will include the 70. If I wanted just above
include the 70. If I wanted just above
include the 70. If I wanted just above 70, it would just be greater than. Okay,
70, it would just be greater than. Okay,
70, it would just be greater than. Okay, greater than or equal to
greater than or equal to
greater than or equal to uh 70
colon. Then I'm going to print out
colon. Then I'm going to print out
colon. Then I'm going to print out uh what was the example? Grade.
Yeah, I'm just going to print grade
and it's going to be a distinction.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay. Right now, I want to look at my 60- 69,
Right now, I want to look at my 60- 69,
Right now, I want to look at my 60- 69, my merits. So,
my merits. So,
my merits. So, I need to use something a bit different
I need to use something a bit different
I need to use something a bit different here. And this is where the LF comes in.
here. And this is where the LF comes in.
here. And this is where the LF comes in. So, LF,
So, LF,
So, LF, sorry, LF grade,
sorry, LF grade,
sorry, LF grade, um, how are we going to do this?
LF grade is greater than or equal to
LF grade is greater than or equal to
LF grade is greater than or equal to in this case
in this case
in this case 60.
I'm going to print
I'm going to print
I'm going to print great
great
great merit
merit
merit and I'm going to keep going. L if great
and I'm going to keep going. L if great
and I'm going to keep going. L if great greater than or equal to 50.
greater than or equal to 50.
greater than or equal to 50. I'll get my pass. Colon
I'll get my pass. Colon
I'll get my pass. Colon print
print
print grades.
I don't know why I've done it like this.
I don't know why I've done it like this.
I don't know why I've done it like this. I can just I can just do this as a full
I can just I can just do this as a full
I can just I can just do this as a full string. uh grade distinction
string. uh grade distinction
string. uh grade distinction merit
merit
merit pass. Okay.
And then finally, I'm going to use that
And then finally, I'm going to use that
And then finally, I'm going to use that else statement. So else if if everything
else statement. So else if if everything
else statement. So else if if everything above doesn't apply or hasn't met that
above doesn't apply or hasn't met that
above doesn't apply or hasn't met that logic, that conditional, then the grade
logic, that conditional, then the grade
logic, that conditional, then the grade is going to be a fail. Print
is going to be a fail. Print
is going to be a fail. Print grade fail. Okay.
grade fail. Okay.
grade fail. Okay. And it's really important that I've done
And it's really important that I've done
And it's really important that I've done this in the descending order because it
this in the descending order because it
this in the descending order because it has to try each one of these in turn.
has to try each one of these in turn.
has to try each one of these in turn. Um, but if I run this now, let's have a
Um, but if I run this now, let's have a
Um, but if I run this now, let's have a go. Let's say, let's try that 65. Oh,
go. Let's say, let's try that 65. Oh,
go. Let's say, let's try that 65. Oh, where did that go? 65 that we had as an
where did that go? 65 that we had as an
where did that go? 65 that we had as an example. I get my merit my merit. Let's
example. I get my merit my merit. Let's
example. I get my merit my merit. Let's try a fail. Yeah. Okay. So, make sure
try a fail. Yeah. Okay. So, make sure
try a fail. Yeah. Okay. So, make sure you can do that. Um, I haven't talked
you can do that. Um, I haven't talked
you can do that. Um, I haven't talked about indentation yet. I'm sure you've
about indentation yet. I'm sure you've
about indentation yet. I'm sure you've you've experienced it already. Every
you've experienced it already. Every
you've experienced it already. Every time I use a colon in Python,
time I use a colon in Python,
time I use a colon in Python, my next line is going to look for an
my next line is going to look for an
my next line is going to look for an indent. Now, that is it. That that
indent. Now, that is it. That that
indent. Now, that is it. That that feature, that kind of whites space
feature, that kind of whites space
feature, that kind of whites space indentation is unique to Python. Uh it's
indentation is unique to Python. Uh it's
indentation is unique to Python. Uh it's really really important. So, really get
really really important. So, really get
really really important. So, really get used to indenting when you start these
used to indenting when you start these
used to indenting when you start these structures. If statements later, you'll
structures. If statements later, you'll
structures. If statements later, you'll see that we use it for functions as
see that we use it for functions as
see that we use it for functions as well. Uh is unique to Python. And the
well. Uh is unique to Python. And the
well. Uh is unique to Python. And the idea really is it it it gives you a
idea really is it it it gives you a
idea really is it it it gives you a nicely formatted set of code that you
nicely formatted set of code that you
nicely formatted set of code that you can you can really read quite easily. It
can you can really read quite easily. It
can you can really read quite easily. It it really does increase the readability
it really does increase the readability
it really does increase the readability compared to something like Rh or
compared to something like Rh or
compared to something like Rh or JavaScript um where there are curly
JavaScript um where there are curly
JavaScript um where there are curly brackets everywhere. Okay, so that's how
brackets everywhere. Okay, so that's how
brackets everywhere. Okay, so that's how we do it. You'll also notice that if you
we do it. You'll also notice that if you
we do it. You'll also notice that if you get if you do something like this,
get if you do something like this,
get if you do something like this, you'll get a horrible
you'll get a horrible
you'll get a horrible Let's have a go. Oh, it's worked. Um let
Let's have a go. Oh, it's worked. Um let
Let's have a go. Oh, it's worked. Um let me let me make sure it hits this line.
me let me make sure it hits this line.
me let me make sure it hits this line. So I'll do 75.
That worked as well. Oh, it still
That worked as well. Oh, it still
That worked as well. Oh, it still recognized it.
recognized it.
recognized it. Let me do it like that. There we go. We
Let me do it like that. There we go. We
Let me do it like that. There we go. We got an This time I've thrown an
got an This time I've thrown an
got an This time I've thrown an indentation error. So, anytime you see
indentation error. So, anytime you see
indentation error. So, anytime you see an indentation error, it will tell you
an indentation error, it will tell you
an indentation error, it will tell you the line to go and look at. And um it
the line to go and look at. And um it
the line to go and look at. And um it says expected an indented block after
says expected an indented block after
says expected an indented block after the if statements. Um so, I've I've been
the if statements. Um so, I've I've been
the if statements. Um so, I've I've been using tabs. Oops.
using tabs. Oops.
using tabs. Oops. But you can also use four spaces.
But you can also use four spaces.
But you can also use four spaces. They're equivalent. Okay. Right. Let's
They're equivalent. Okay. Right. Let's
They're equivalent. Okay. Right. Let's move on to question five.
