Kind: captions Language: en
Okay, question two. Um, I'm going to
Okay, question two. Um, I'm going to
Okay, question two. Um, I'm going to introduce you now to something um almost
introduce you now to something um almost
introduce you now to something um almost completely different um called reax. Um
completely different um called reax. Um
completely different um called reax. Um now reax is almost like another coding
now reax is almost like another coding
now reax is almost like another coding language
language
language um in its own right. The reject stands
um in its own right. The reject stands
um in its own right. The reject stands for regular expressions.
for regular expressions.
for regular expressions. And what this is, it's a kind of um it's
And what this is, it's a kind of um it's
And what this is, it's a kind of um it's a very consistent way, I say consistent,
a very consistent way, I say consistent,
a very consistent way, I say consistent, I mean all across all programming
I mean all across all programming
I mean all across all programming languages of identifying um matches to
languages of identifying um matches to
languages of identifying um matches to strings
strings
strings uh in any language. And it's really
uh in any language. And it's really
uh in any language. And it's really really useful. Super duper useful. Um
really useful. Super duper useful. Um
really useful. Super duper useful. Um because up to this point we have
because up to this point we have
because up to this point we have actually been doing things like looping
actually been doing things like looping
actually been doing things like looping over a string and checking each
over a string and checking each
over a string and checking each character one by one and then saying oh
character one by one and then saying oh
character one by one and then saying oh if it is there keep it or if it isn't
if it is there keep it or if it isn't
if it is there keep it or if it isn't there we'll ignore it. Um or if it's got
there we'll ignore it. Um or if it's got
there we'll ignore it. Um or if it's got an X in it we'll throw an error. So what
an X in it we'll throw an error. So what
an X in it we'll throw an error. So what a reject allows us to do is basically
a reject allows us to do is basically
a reject allows us to do is basically not to have to loop. Um we can validate
not to have to loop. Um we can validate
not to have to loop. Um we can validate a string just with a single bit of code
a string just with a single bit of code
a string just with a single bit of code um by matching what we call a pattern.
um by matching what we call a pattern.
um by matching what we call a pattern. Um now this is this is not really um for
Um now this is this is not really um for
Um now this is this is not really um for the faint-hearted and there's so much
the faint-hearted and there's so much
the faint-hearted and there's so much more um that you could learn about reax
more um that you could learn about reax
more um that you could learn about reax but I I want to introduce it to you here
but I I want to introduce it to you here
but I I want to introduce it to you here simply because
simply because
simply because it it will undoubtedly be of use to you
it it will undoubtedly be of use to you
it it will undoubtedly be of use to you in the the near future. Right? Even if
in the the near future. Right? Even if
in the the near future. Right? Even if it so even if you don't really get
it so even if you don't really get
it so even if you don't really get what's going on here, don't worry about
what's going on here, don't worry about
what's going on here, don't worry about it. We are going to have a go and
it. We are going to have a go and
it. We are going to have a go and hopefully I'll be able to show you um
hopefully I'll be able to show you um
hopefully I'll be able to show you um something you've probably already done
something you've probably already done
something you've probably already done before but in a slightly different way.
before but in a slightly different way.
before but in a slightly different way. Okay, so let me just read out this
Okay, so let me just read out this
Okay, so let me just read out this question. We're going to write a reax to
question. We're going to write a reax to
question. We're going to write a reax to test whether a string is a valid DNA
test whether a string is a valid DNA
test whether a string is a valid DNA sequence, i.e. only contains a cgt. We
sequence, i.e. only contains a cgt. We
sequence, i.e. only contains a cgt. We did this we've done this already in a
did this we've done this already in a
did this we've done this already in a previous workshop. Um, we're going to
previous workshop. Um, we're going to
previous workshop. Um, we're going to use a function called re.f full match to
use a function called re.f full match to
use a function called re.f full match to check sequences
check sequences
check sequences um like ATC GT. I've got a couple of
um like ATC GT. I've got a couple of
um like ATC GT. I've got a couple of examples I'm going to throw at you um
examples I'm going to throw at you um
examples I'm going to throw at you um and then determine whether they are
and then determine whether they are
and then determine whether they are valid or invalid. Okay.
valid or invalid. Okay.
valid or invalid. Okay. Right. So, let me go back to Visual
Right. So, let me go back to Visual
Right. So, let me go back to Visual Studio. I'm going to create a new file
Studio. I'm going to create a new file
Studio. I'm going to create a new file called Q2.py
and I'm going to start um writing some
and I'm going to start um writing some
and I'm going to start um writing some code. So question two
um what we're going to do check
um what we're going to do check
um what we're going to do check whether
whether
whether check check if a string is a valid
check check if a string is a valid
check check if a string is a valid DNA sequence
DNA sequence
DNA sequence using reax. Okay. So the first important
using reax. Okay. So the first important
using reax. Okay. So the first important thing uh is that I need to import a new
thing uh is that I need to import a new
thing uh is that I need to import a new module here. Um so the I'll just write
module here. Um so the I'll just write
module here. Um so the I'll just write it import
it import
it import if you're going to use reax you need to
if you're going to use reax you need to
if you're going to use reax you need to import this in Python. Now it's already
import this in Python. Now it's already
import this in Python. Now it's already stored in your interpreter somewhere. So
stored in your interpreter somewhere. So
stored in your interpreter somewhere. So you don't need to install it as an
you don't need to install it as an
you don't need to install it as an additional package like you do some but
additional package like you do some but
additional package like you do some but you're going to need to bring it into
you're going to need to bring it into
you're going to need to bring it into your current environment for use. So you
your current environment for use. So you
your current environment for use. So you need to use an import function and that
need to use an import function and that
need to use an import function and that is actually something I really want um
is actually something I really want um
is actually something I really want um to show you how to do this week. You've
to show you how to do this week. You've
to show you how to do this week. You've kind of done it already in some
kind of done it already in some
kind of done it already in some instances. For example, you might have
instances. For example, you might have
instances. For example, you might have used math. Um so it's the same thing
used math. Um so it's the same thing
used math. Um so it's the same thing really. We're going to use um a module
really. We're going to use um a module
really. We're going to use um a module called reax
called reax
called reax um to do something. Right. The next
um to do something. Right. The next
um to do something. Right. The next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to
thing I'm going to do is I'm going to
thing I'm going to do is I'm going to define um what I call a pattern. A reax
define um what I call a pattern. A reax
define um what I call a pattern. A reax pattern. Okay. Okay. And I'm actually
pattern. Okay. Okay. And I'm actually
pattern. Okay. Okay. And I'm actually going to give it a variable name called
going to give it a variable name called
going to give it a variable name called pattern. Okay. And I'm going to store it
pattern. Okay. And I'm going to store it
pattern. Okay. And I'm going to store it in there. Now, this is the fun bit.
in there. Now, this is the fun bit.
in there. Now, this is the fun bit. Right now, um I'm going to start my
Right now, um I'm going to start my
Right now, um I'm going to start my pattern with an R. And I'm going to hit
pattern with an R. And I'm going to hit
pattern with an R. And I'm going to hit it with a
it with a
it with a uh quotation mark. So, that is how all
uh quotation mark. So, that is how all
uh quotation mark. So, that is how all of your reax pattern should start in
of your reax pattern should start in
of your reax pattern should start in Python. Um so, the R is really kind of
Python. Um so, the R is really kind of
Python. Um so, the R is really kind of indicating there
indicating there
indicating there um that it is
um that it is
um that it is without going into too much detail, it's
without going into too much detail, it's
without going into too much detail, it's what we call a raw string literal. And
what we call a raw string literal. And
what we call a raw string literal. And what the R will make sure happens is it
what the R will make sure happens is it
what the R will make sure happens is it doesn't if I put another um if I if I
doesn't if I put another um if I if I
doesn't if I put another um if I if I put a character in here like a a
put a character in here like a a
put a character in here like a a backslash um or forward slash, it
backslash um or forward slash, it
backslash um or forward slash, it shouldn't escape that character um and
shouldn't escape that character um and
shouldn't escape that character um and do something else that we're not
do something else that we're not
do something else that we're not anticipating. Anyway, I'm not going to
anticipating. Anyway, I'm not going to
anticipating. Anyway, I'm not going to talk anymore about that. Just make sure
talk anymore about that. Just make sure
talk anymore about that. Just make sure you put the R in. That's important.
you put the R in. That's important.
you put the R in. That's important. And then the next thing I'm going to do
And then the next thing I'm going to do
And then the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use this character. For
is I'm going to use this character. For
is I'm going to use this character. For me, it's shift and six. It might be
me, it's shift and six. It might be
me, it's shift and six. It might be different for you depending on what
different for you depending on what
different for you depending on what keyboard you're using. Um, but that what
keyboard you're using. Um, but that what
keyboard you're using. Um, but that what we call I think it's called a carrot.
we call I think it's called a carrot.
we call I think it's called a carrot. Um, is to indicate that I'm starting my
Um, is to indicate that I'm starting my
Um, is to indicate that I'm starting my pattern. Okay, this is the start of my
pattern. Okay, this is the start of my
pattern. Okay, this is the start of my string. Um, I'm just going to type some
string. Um, I'm just going to type some
string. Um, I'm just going to type some stuff now. I'm going to do this. open
stuff now. I'm going to do this. open
stuff now. I'm going to do this. open square bracket ACGT
square bracket ACGT
square bracket ACGT close bracket and then I'm going to put
close bracket and then I'm going to put
close bracket and then I'm going to put a plus and then I'm going to put a
a plus and then I'm going to put a
a plus and then I'm going to put a dollar sign. Now, this is ugly, I know.
dollar sign. Now, this is ugly, I know.
dollar sign. Now, this is ugly, I know. Let me just explain exactly what I'm
Let me just explain exactly what I'm
Let me just explain exactly what I'm doing here. Um, so I'm going to put it
doing here. Um, so I'm going to put it
doing here. Um, so I'm going to put it in a comments, right? So, I'm basically
in a comments, right? So, I'm basically
in a comments, right? So, I'm basically going to start my pattern
going to start my pattern
going to start my pattern um with here. Okay. And I'm looking for
um with here. Okay. And I'm looking for
um with here. Okay. And I'm looking for one or more
one or more
one or more um AS's, C's, G's and T's.
um AS's, C's, G's and T's.
um AS's, C's, G's and T's. Um and then
Um and then
Um and then the dollar sign
the dollar sign
the dollar sign to end, right? So that means that's the
to end, right? So that means that's the
to end, right? So that means that's the end of my reex. So
end of my reex. So
end of my reex. So let's just unpack that. So I'm basically
let's just unpack that. So I'm basically
let's just unpack that. So I'm basically the square bracket indicates I can find
the square bracket indicates I can find
the square bracket indicates I can find any of these A, C, G's or T's. They're
any of these A, C, G's or T's. They're
any of these A, C, G's or T's. They're all uppercase. That's important.
all uppercase. That's important.
all uppercase. That's important. The plus indicates that there might be
The plus indicates that there might be
The plus indicates that there might be more than one and the dollar sign just
more than one and the dollar sign just
more than one and the dollar sign just indicates that I don't want anything
indicates that I don't want anything
indicates that I don't want anything else. Okay, there can't be anything else
else. Okay, there can't be anything else
else. Okay, there can't be anything else in that sequence, right? Um
in that sequence, right? Um
in that sequence, right? Um okay. Uh let's let's this is let's just
okay. Uh let's let's this is let's just
okay. Uh let's let's this is let's just run this and I'll show you how it works.
run this and I'll show you how it works.
run this and I'll show you how it works. Right, let's let's create some tests. Um
Right, let's let's create some tests. Um
Right, let's let's create some tests. Um I'm going to create I'm just going to
I'm going to create I'm just going to
I'm going to create I'm just going to create some random stuff now. Um at CGT,
create some random stuff now. Um at CGT,
create some random stuff now. Um at CGT, that's one. Um, let's do um, so that
that's one. Um, let's do um, so that
that's one. Um, let's do um, so that should be a valid one because it's all
should be a valid one because it's all
should be a valid one because it's all A's, C's and C's and G's. Let's do an A
A's, C's and C's and G's. Let's do an A
A's, C's and C's and G's. Let's do an A XTG. That will give me that should be
XTG. That will give me that should be
XTG. That will give me that should be invalid because it's got an X in it. Um,
invalid because it's got an X in it. Um,
invalid because it's got an X in it. Um, let's do another one. A gat. Oh, look at
let's do another one. A gat. Oh, look at
let's do another one. A gat. Oh, look at that. Gatka. Okay. Um,
that. Gatka. Okay. Um,
that. Gatka. Okay. Um, uh, and then I'll do AGCT, but I'm going
uh, and then I'll do AGCT, but I'm going
uh, and then I'll do AGCT, but I'm going to do it in lower case. Okay. Right. And
to do it in lower case. Okay. Right. And
to do it in lower case. Okay. Right. And remember what we're trying to do here is
remember what we're trying to do here is
remember what we're trying to do here is we are trying
we are trying
we are trying um we are determine
okay we're going to use
okay we're going to use
okay we're going to use ah use our pattern
ah use our pattern
ah use our pattern to determine
to determine
to determine if
if
if um tests are valid invalid okay so I'm
um tests are valid invalid okay so I'm
um tests are valid invalid okay so I'm going to loop over these tests now for
going to loop over these tests now for
going to loop over these tests now for um sequence in tests.
um sequence in tests.
um sequence in tests. And of course, if I was to print that
And of course, if I was to print that
And of course, if I was to print that out, oops, I always do that.
Um, if I just do print seek, of course,
Um, if I just do print seek, of course,
Um, if I just do print seek, of course, and run this, should just print those
and run this, should just print those
and run this, should just print those out. There we go. Um, so I'm going to go
out. There we go. Um, so I'm going to go
out. There we go. Um, so I'm going to go through each of these sequences by turn.
through each of these sequences by turn.
through each of these sequences by turn. And now I'm going to use my pattern to
And now I'm going to use my pattern to
And now I'm going to use my pattern to determine whether this sequence is valid
determine whether this sequence is valid
determine whether this sequence is valid or invalid. Right. Now, if I was doing
or invalid. Right. Now, if I was doing
or invalid. Right. Now, if I was doing that sequence by sequence, previously I
that sequence by sequence, previously I
that sequence by sequence, previously I would have had another for loop in here
would have had another for loop in here
would have had another for loop in here for each sequence to go through it
for each sequence to go through it
for each sequence to go through it character by character and then do um if
character by character and then do um if
character by character and then do um if I don't know what I do um
I don't know what I do um
I don't know what I do um if a then continue or if c continue
if a then continue or if c continue
if a then continue or if c continue until it got to something it didn't
until it got to something it didn't
until it got to something it didn't like. That's really inefficient. Okay.
like. That's really inefficient. Okay.
like. That's really inefficient. Okay. So, I'm going to use um this re
So, I'm going to use um this re
So, I'm going to use um this re match. Okay, pattern
match. Okay, pattern
match. Okay, pattern seek upper. Okay, so let me just unpack
seek upper. Okay, so let me just unpack
seek upper. Okay, so let me just unpack this here. This full match is what we're
this here. This full match is what we're
this here. This full match is what we're doing here. And that's if it's an if
doing here. And that's if it's an if
doing here. And that's if it's an if statement as well, by the way, so I need
statement as well, by the way, so I need
statement as well, by the way, so I need the colon. It's using this function
the colon. It's using this function
the colon. It's using this function called F match.
called F match.
called F match. And what that does is essentially looks
And what that does is essentially looks
And what that does is essentially looks at the full string in each false string
at the full string in each false string
at the full string in each false string in turn and it uses the pattern um to
in turn and it uses the pattern um to
in turn and it uses the pattern um to see if there is a match. Okay.
see if there is a match. Okay.
see if there is a match. Okay. And
And
And if so, then I'm going to print out
if so, then I'm going to print out
if so, then I'm going to print out that the sequence
that the sequence
that the sequence is valid.
is valid.
is valid. Put a space.
Put a space.
Put a space. Put that there as well. Um, if it's not
Put that there as well. Um, if it's not
Put that there as well. Um, if it's not else print
else print
else print sequence
invalid.
invalid.
invalid. Don't actually think I need the space
Don't actually think I need the space
Don't actually think I need the space there. Let's have a look.
there. Let's have a look.
there. Let's have a look. So, what that's going to do is going to
So, what that's going to do is going to
So, what that's going to do is going to go through each one of these in turns.
go through each one of these in turns.
go through each one of these in turns. Um, it's going to actually up it's going
Um, it's going to actually up it's going
Um, it's going to actually up it's going to make everything uppercase. In fact,
to make everything uppercase. In fact,
to make everything uppercase. In fact, I'm going to take that off. So, I get I
I'm going to take that off. So, I get I
I'm going to take that off. So, I get I should get an error on my last one
should get an error on my last one
should get an error on my last one there. And then it's going to use this
there. And then it's going to use this
there. And then it's going to use this function which is going to compare my
function which is going to compare my
function which is going to compare my pattern against the sequence. And if it
pattern against the sequence. And if it
pattern against the sequence. And if it matches then it'll say valid otherwise
matches then it'll say valid otherwise
matches then it'll say valid otherwise it won't it'll say invalid. So you can
it won't it'll say invalid. So you can
it won't it'll say invalid. So you can see here it should work for this one not
see here it should work for this one not
see here it should work for this one not for this one. It should work for this
for this one. It should work for this
for this one. It should work for this one. And because I haven't got dotupper
one. And because I haven't got dotupper
one. And because I haven't got dotupper it should work for that one as well.
it should work for that one as well.
it should work for that one as well. Actually because I haven't got dotupper
Actually because I haven't got dotupper
Actually because I haven't got dotupper it shouldn't work for this one because
it shouldn't work for this one because
it shouldn't work for this one because it's case sensitive. Let's run it.
it's case sensitive. Let's run it.
it's case sensitive. Let's run it. There we go. Valid. Invalid. Valid.
There we go. Valid. Invalid. Valid.
There we go. Valid. Invalid. Valid. Invalid. If I were to have done dot
Invalid. If I were to have done dot
Invalid. If I were to have done dot upper
and ran that, it actually tells me that
and ran that, it actually tells me that
and ran that, it actually tells me that AGCT is also valid. Okay.
