Kind: captions Language: en
Let's go and do the next question.
Okay, question four. This is where the
Okay, question four. This is where the
Okay, question four. This is where the real fun begins. We are now going to
real fun begins. We are now going to
real fun begins. We are now going to start creating our own modules that we
start creating our own modules that we
start creating our own modules that we can import.
can import.
can import. And that's really interesting and useful
And that's really interesting and useful
And that's really interesting and useful because
we're going to probably write lots of
we're going to probably write lots of
we're going to probably write lots of code at some point for one of our own
code at some point for one of our own
code at some point for one of our own projects. And we're going to want to
projects. And we're going to want to
projects. And we're going to want to separate the kind of the logic from the
separate the kind of the logic from the
separate the kind of the logic from the the run. Um just so it's a bit tidier.
the run. Um just so it's a bit tidier.
the run. Um just so it's a bit tidier. So the reason we're doing this is really
So the reason we're doing this is really
So the reason we're doing this is really just so we can make our code a bit more
just so we can make our code a bit more
just so we can make our code a bit more compartmentalized
compartmentalized
compartmentalized and a bit easier to interpret later. Um
and a bit easier to interpret later. Um
and a bit easier to interpret later. Um so basically as our code grows we we
so basically as our code grows we we
so basically as our code grows we we really do want to separate our logic
really do want to separate our logic
really do want to separate our logic into modules. Okay, it's probably not
into modules. Okay, it's probably not
into modules. Okay, it's probably not terribly important right now, but in the
terribly important right now, but in the
terribly important right now, but in the future again, you will thank me for
future again, you will thank me for
future again, you will thank me for this, I hope. So, we're going to create
this, I hope. So, we're going to create
this, I hope. So, we're going to create a file called uh seek utils. So,
a file called uh seek utils. So,
a file called uh seek utils. So, basically um um utilities for sequences.
basically um um utilities for sequences.
basically um um utilities for sequences. Um and we're going to again do our
Um and we're going to again do our
Um and we're going to again do our reversed complement and transcribe. I'm
reversed complement and transcribe. I'm
reversed complement and transcribe. I'm going to write them as functions. And
going to write them as functions. And
going to write them as functions. And then we're going to write a second
then we're going to write a second
then we're going to write a second script called main.py pi that uses
script called main.py pi that uses
script called main.py pi that uses those, right? In fact, I'm not going to
those, right? In fact, I'm not going to
those, right? In fact, I'm not going to um call it main.py. I'm probably going
um call it main.py. I'm probably going
um call it main.py. I'm probably going to call it question what are we on?
to call it question what are we on?
to call it question what are we on? 4.py. Okay. So, let's let's take a look.
4.py. Okay. So, let's let's take a look.
4.py. Okay. So, let's let's take a look. Um let's go over to
Um let's go over to
Um let's go over to our
our
our yeah visual code. I'm going to create a
yeah visual code. I'm going to create a
yeah visual code. I'm going to create a new file. I'm going to create two new
new file. I'm going to create two new
new file. I'm going to create two new files. One called Q4.py pi and another
files. One called Q4.py pi and another
files. One called Q4.py pi and another one called s e q u t i ls. Okay, so
one called s e q u t i ls. Okay, so
one called s e q u t i ls. Okay, so they're separate files.
they're separate files.
they're separate files. And the first thing I'm going to do is
And the first thing I'm going to do is
And the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to write all of the the code
I'm going to write all of the the code
I'm going to write all of the the code that I need to do my reverse complements
that I need to do my reverse complements
that I need to do my reverse complements and my transcription.
and my transcription.
and my transcription. And I'm going to do that as two
And I'm going to do that as two
And I'm going to do that as two functions. One called rev comp and the
functions. One called rev comp and the
functions. One called rev comp and the other one called transcribe. Oh, um
other one called transcribe. Oh, um
other one called transcribe. Oh, um let's just have
let's just have
let's just have um a bit of a descriptor at the top
um a bit of a descriptor at the top
um a bit of a descriptor at the top here. Utils utility
here. Utils utility
here. Utils utility functions for working with DNA
functions for working with DNA
functions for working with DNA sequences. And that's always good
sequences. And that's always good
sequences. And that's always good practice to put at the top of any file.
practice to put at the top of any file.
practice to put at the top of any file. Get rid of that.
Get rid of that.
Get rid of that. Um just so whoever opens the file knows
Um just so whoever opens the file knows
Um just so whoever opens the file knows what that file is relating to. I am
what that file is relating to. I am
what that file is relating to. I am going to create two functions here. The
going to create two functions here. The
going to create two functions here. The first one is going to be reverse or
first one is going to be reverse or
first one is going to be reverse or rev_mp.
rev_mp.
rev_mp. That's going to take a sequence which
That's going to take a sequence which
That's going to take a sequence which will be a string. And I am just going to
will be a string. And I am just going to
will be a string. And I am just going to return
return
return none right now. That that will just give
none right now. That that will just give
none right now. That that will just give me nothing. Um and then I'll write the
me nothing. Um and then I'll write the
me nothing. Um and then I'll write the code in a sec. I want a second function
code in a sec. I want a second function
code in a sec. I want a second function called defaf transcribe.
called defaf transcribe.
called defaf transcribe. And that is going to take again a
And that is going to take again a
And that is going to take again a sequence
sequence
sequence and again return none to begin with.
and again return none to begin with.
and again return none to begin with. Right.
Right.
Right. So nothing is going to happen if I run
So nothing is going to happen if I run
So nothing is going to happen if I run this. Nothing at all. Okay.
this. Nothing at all. Okay.
this. Nothing at all. Okay. Um I haven't done anything yet. I've
Um I haven't done anything yet. I've
Um I haven't done anything yet. I've just created the skeleton of my file and
just created the skeleton of my file and
just created the skeleton of my file and my function. So let's do a reverse
my function. So let's do a reverse
my function. So let's do a reverse complement function. Um first thing I'm
complement function. Um first thing I'm
complement function. Um first thing I'm going to do is put a dock string in
going to do is put a dock string in
going to do is put a dock string in there to say what the function is going
there to say what the function is going
there to say what the function is going to do. This is simply going to return
to do. This is simply going to return
to do. This is simply going to return um the reverse complement
um the reverse complement
um the reverse complement of a DNA sequence.
of a DNA sequence.
of a DNA sequence. Right? How do we do that? Um, we've done
Right? How do we do that? Um, we've done
Right? How do we do that? Um, we've done this before. I'm going to define a
this before. I'm going to define a
this before. I'm going to define a variable called sequence.
variable called sequence.
variable called sequence. Um, actually I'm feeding the sequence
Um, actually I'm feeding the sequence
Um, actually I'm feeding the sequence in, but I want to update it. I just want
in, but I want to update it. I just want
in, but I want to update it. I just want to make sure it's completely uppercase
to make sure it's completely uppercase
to make sure it's completely uppercase to begin with. And then um
to begin with. And then um
to begin with. And then um here's the bit where I want to
here's the bit where I want to
here's the bit where I want to um
create mapping of base complements.
create mapping of base complements.
create mapping of base complements. So remember I want to convert um A's to
So remember I want to convert um A's to
So remember I want to convert um A's to T's and C's to G's. Now I can't remember
T's and C's to G's. Now I can't remember
T's and C's to G's. Now I can't remember how I did this last time but I'm going
how I did this last time but I'm going
how I did this last time but I'm going to do it in a slightly different way.
to do it in a slightly different way.
to do it in a slightly different way. Okay. So, I'm going to create a vehicle
Okay. So, I'm going to create a vehicle
Okay. So, I'm going to create a vehicle called complement
equals um str make trans. We'll discuss
equals um str make trans. We'll discuss
equals um str make trans. We'll discuss this function in a second.
this function in a second.
this function in a second. And I'm going to basically map a t c and
And I'm going to basically map a t c and
And I'm going to basically map a t c and g to let me figure this out. T a g and
g to let me figure this out. T a g and
g to let me figure this out. T a g and c. Okay. Um right. Let's just discuss um
c. Okay. Um right. Let's just discuss um
c. Okay. Um right. Let's just discuss um this make trans table. Um so these are
this make trans table. Um so these are
this make trans table. Um so these are quite powerful string tools.
quite powerful string tools.
quite powerful string tools. um which is why they're on the the
um which is why they're on the the
um which is why they're on the the string um module. So all it's doing
string um module. So all it's doing
string um module. So all it's doing is in one line rather than having to
is in one line rather than having to
is in one line rather than having to look some sort of lookup table, it's
look some sort of lookup table, it's
look some sort of lookup table, it's just mapping every character in turn
just mapping every character in turn
just mapping every character in turn onto this one. Okay, we don't really
onto this one. Okay, we don't really
onto this one. Okay, we don't really need to go any deeper here. Just
need to go any deeper here. Just
need to go any deeper here. Just remember that this is how you do it. And
remember that this is how you do it. And
remember that this is how you do it. And what that will do is we it will it will
what that will do is we it will it will
what that will do is we it will it will create
create
create um a variable called complement which
um a variable called complement which
um a variable called complement which basically contains a lookup table that
basically contains a lookup table that
basically contains a lookup table that we're going to use rather than having to
we're going to use rather than having to
we're going to use rather than having to have to define one explicitly.
have to define one explicitly.
have to define one explicitly. Um the last thing we're going to do here
Um the last thing we're going to do here
Um the last thing we're going to do here is we're going to use another string. Um
is we're going to use another string. Um
is we're going to use another string. Um so we're going to yeah another string
so we're going to yeah another string
so we're going to yeah another string function called translate. Um so I'm
function called translate. Um so I'm
function called translate. Um so I'm going to create uh actually I'm just
going to create uh actually I'm just
going to create uh actually I'm just going to return it. I'm just going to
going to return it. I'm just going to
going to return it. I'm just going to return this now. So what I'm going to
return this now. So what I'm going to
return this now. So what I'm going to return here is my reverse complement
return here is my reverse complement
return here is my reverse complement which will be the sequence.
Um and then I'm going to put in
Um and then I'm going to put in
Um and then I'm going to put in compliment.
compliment.
compliment. Right now let me just unpack that. So
Right now let me just unpack that. So
Right now let me just unpack that. So what I'm doing here is I'm calling my
what I'm doing here is I'm calling my
what I'm doing here is I'm calling my sequence. I'm hitting it with an inbuilt
sequence. I'm hitting it with an inbuilt
sequence. I'm hitting it with an inbuilt function inbuilt string function called
function inbuilt string function called
function inbuilt string function called translate.
translate.
translate. And I'm going to feed this complement
And I'm going to feed this complement
And I'm going to feed this complement table of my mappings into it. So it
table of my mappings into it. So it
table of my mappings into it. So it knows how to change all of the
knows how to change all of the
knows how to change all of the characters in my sequence. Okay. So that
characters in my sequence. Okay. So that
characters in my sequence. Okay. So that will essentially give me the complement.
will essentially give me the complement.
will essentially give me the complement. Um but I also want to reverse it. So for
Um but I also want to reverse it. So for
Um but I also want to reverse it. So for me that is a no-brainer. I always use uh
me that is a no-brainer. I always use uh
me that is a no-brainer. I always use uh col minus one to reverse. And this
col minus one to reverse. And this
col minus one to reverse. And this function now will reverse the um
function now will reverse the um
function now will reverse the um will return the reverse component. And
will return the reverse component. And
will return the reverse component. And let me just return the um okay let's do
let me just return the um okay let's do
let me just return the um okay let's do it. apply mapping and return
it. apply mapping and return
it. apply mapping and return reverse. Okay. Right. So there's my
reverse. Okay. Right. So there's my
reverse. Okay. Right. So there's my reverse complement uh function. I need
reverse complement uh function. I need
reverse complement uh function. I need another function uh for transcribe.
another function uh for transcribe.
another function uh for transcribe. Um now the transcribe function is even
Um now the transcribe function is even
Um now the transcribe function is even simpler than that. All all we were doing
simpler than that. All all we were doing
simpler than that. All all we were doing with transcribe was we're converting DNA
with transcribe was we're converting DNA
with transcribe was we're converting DNA to RNA. Right? Let me write that in.
to RNA. Right? Let me write that in.
to RNA. Right? Let me write that in. Convert um DNA to RNA. So, I've actually
Convert um DNA to RNA. So, I've actually
Convert um DNA to RNA. So, I've actually started with a harder function
started with a harder function
started with a harder function um because all I need to do when I just
um because all I need to do when I just
um because all I need to do when I just transcribe is simply return seek upper
transcribe is simply return seek upper
transcribe is simply return seek upper umreplace. Now, because I'm only
umreplace. Now, because I'm only
umreplace. Now, because I'm only replacing flipping two characters around
replacing flipping two characters around
replacing flipping two characters around or one character round, I'm converting
or one character round, I'm converting
or one character round, I'm converting all T's to use.
all T's to use.
all T's to use. That's it. I could have I could have
That's it. I could have I could have
That's it. I could have I could have done something like this, but it would
done something like this, but it would
done something like this, but it would have been a hammer to crack a nut. Okay.
have been a hammer to crack a nut. Okay.
have been a hammer to crack a nut. Okay. Um, so that's just going to with a
Um, so that's just going to with a
Um, so that's just going to with a single line return
single line return
single line return um the sequence which has been converted
um the sequence which has been converted
um the sequence which has been converted to uppercase and it's had all of its t's
to uppercase and it's had all of its t's
to uppercase and it's had all of its t's replaced with use.
replaced with use.
replaced with use. And that's it. That's all I wanted to do
And that's it. That's all I wanted to do
And that's it. That's all I wanted to do in my cqills.py.
And again, if I run it, nothing will
And again, if I run it, nothing will
And again, if I run it, nothing will happen. Here's the fun bit. Here's the
happen. Here's the fun bit. Here's the
happen. Here's the fun bit. Here's the um the bit we're going to actually
um the bit we're going to actually
um the bit we're going to actually solve our problem. And I need to need to
solve our problem. And I need to need to
solve our problem. And I need to need to remind myself what the problem was.
remind myself what the problem was.
remind myself what the problem was. um
um
um write a script that imports cqills and
write a script that imports cqills and
write a script that imports cqills and calls post functions. Right? So I
calls post functions. Right? So I
calls post functions. Right? So I haven't called it main.py. I've called
haven't called it main.py. I've called
haven't called it main.py. I've called it um question four. So what I want to
it um question four. So what I want to
it um question four. So what I want to do here is um I want to demonstrate
do here is um I want to demonstrate
do here is um I want to demonstrate in this file
in this file
in this file um using functions from cutills.
um using functions from cutills.
um using functions from cutills. take utils.py
and I'm going to create a variable
and I'm going to create a variable
and I'm going to create a variable called DNA which will be my DNA
called DNA which will be my DNA
called DNA which will be my DNA sequence. Uh a t g a ccta doesn't matter
sequence. Uh a t g a ccta doesn't matter
sequence. Uh a t g a ccta doesn't matter what it's called. And what I want to do
what it's called. And what I want to do
what it's called. And what I want to do now is import. In fact, what I should
now is import. In fact, what I should
now is import. In fact, what I should do, you should import, you should make
do, you should import, you should make
do, you should import, you should make all of your import statements at the
all of your import statements at the
all of your import statements at the very top. So I'm going to import
very top. So I'm going to import
very top. So I'm going to import seek utils. There it is. And if you've
seek utils. There it is. And if you've
seek utils. There it is. And if you've done it right and it's in the same
done it right and it's in the same
done it right and it's in the same folder that you're working in, it should
folder that you're working in, it should
folder that you're working in, it should find it. Now, there's a couple of ways I
find it. Now, there's a couple of ways I
find it. Now, there's a couple of ways I can do this. As I showed you in the last
can do this. As I showed you in the last
can do this. As I showed you in the last video, I could have done it um as
video, I could have done it um as
video, I could have done it um as su cqls. Um and I I can then use su as
su cqls. Um and I I can then use su as
su cqls. Um and I I can then use su as my module name with a dot afterwards to
my module name with a dot afterwards to
my module name with a dot afterwards to call any methods or functions that are
call any methods or functions that are
call any methods or functions that are in there. I am
in there. I am
in there. I am going to just leave it like that. Okay.
going to just leave it like that. Okay.
going to just leave it like that. Okay. So, we'll call it explicitly. So the
So, we'll call it explicitly. So the
So, we'll call it explicitly. So the first thing I wanted to do is I I'm
first thing I wanted to do is I I'm
first thing I wanted to do is I I'm going to print out the original sequence
and that's just DNA.
and that's just DNA.
and that's just DNA. Then I'm going to print
Then I'm going to print
Then I'm going to print uh reverse
uh reverse
uh reverse complement
complement
complement complement.
complement.
complement. Correct. Okay. At this point I'm going
Correct. Okay. At this point I'm going
Correct. Okay. At this point I'm going to call CQLs
to call CQLs
to call CQLs dot and if I've done this right
dot and if I've done this right
dot and if I've done this right uh I spelled utils wrong.
uh I spelled utils wrong.
uh I spelled utils wrong. Z U TI. There it is. Dot. There you are.
Z U TI. There it is. Dot. There you are.
Z U TI. There it is. Dot. There you are. If I put the dot in, it immediately
If I put the dot in, it immediately
If I put the dot in, it immediately recommends the functions that are in
recommends the functions that are in
recommends the functions that are in that module. So, I'm going to call Rev
that module. So, I'm going to call Rev
that module. So, I'm going to call Rev Comp. I'm going put my DNA in. And then
Comp. I'm going put my DNA in. And then
Comp. I'm going put my DNA in. And then the last one, I'm going to print the RNA
the last one, I'm going to print the RNA
the last one, I'm going to print the RNA transcript as well.
transcript as well.
transcript as well. Uh, okay.
Uh, seek utils dot transcribe.
Uh, seek utils dot transcribe.
Uh, seek utils dot transcribe. throw my DNA in there. Let's just tidy
throw my DNA in there. Let's just tidy
throw my DNA in there. Let's just tidy this up a bit.
Don't think I need spaces.
Let's run it. See what happens. There we
Let's run it. See what happens. There we
Let's run it. See what happens. There we go. Right. So, you now know how to
go. Right. So, you now know how to
go. Right. So, you now know how to create a completely separate Python file
create a completely separate Python file
create a completely separate Python file which will store useful functions and
which will store useful functions and
which will store useful functions and then use them in
then use them in
then use them in um some other script file. And what I've
um some other script file. And what I've
um some other script file. And what I've got, what you I hope you'll appreciate
got, what you I hope you'll appreciate
got, what you I hope you'll appreciate here is this file looks pretty simple,
here is this file looks pretty simple,
here is this file looks pretty simple, right? It's just four lines, but I'm
right? It's just four lines, but I'm
right? It's just four lines, but I'm doing a lot. Um I haven't got this and
doing a lot. Um I haven't got this and
doing a lot. Um I haven't got this and where is it? This all in one. Okay. And
where is it? This all in one. Okay. And
where is it? This all in one. Okay. And that's really really nice when you're
that's really really nice when you're
that's really really nice when you're writing extended code because you don't
writing extended code because you don't
writing extended code because you don't want to be having to scroll through or
want to be having to scroll through or
want to be having to scroll through or get distracted by all of the code you've
get distracted by all of the code you've
get distracted by all of the code you've already written. you want to look at the
already written. you want to look at the
already written. you want to look at the business end of what you're trying to
business end of what you're trying to
business end of what you're trying to achieve, which is this. Um, furthermore,
achieve, which is this. Um, furthermore,
achieve, which is this. Um, furthermore, for anyone that you're trying to pass on
for anyone that you're trying to pass on
for anyone that you're trying to pass on your code to, you don't want them really
your code to, you don't want them really
your code to, you don't want them really um to get frustrated and confused by all
um to get frustrated and confused by all
um to get frustrated and confused by all of the the logic stuff that you've
of the the logic stuff that you've
of the the logic stuff that you've written. You just want them to be able
written. You just want them to be able
written. You just want them to be able to use these functions and not worry
to use these functions and not worry
to use these functions and not worry about it like we do for everything
about it like we do for everything
about it like we do for everything pretty much. Um,
pretty much. Um,
pretty much. Um, so if you import CQills, they're not
so if you import CQills, they're not
so if you import CQills, they're not really going to go and dive into that
really going to go and dive into that
really going to go and dive into that and question everything you've done.
and question everything you've done.
and question everything you've done. They're just going to trust that your
They're just going to trust that your
They're just going to trust that your script's going to run. Um, provided
script's going to run. Um, provided
script's going to run. Um, provided you've told them how to use it. Anyway,
you've told them how to use it. Anyway,
you've told them how to use it. Anyway, I'm ranting. So, that's an important
I'm ranting. So, that's an important
I'm ranting. So, that's an important concept that I need you to learn.
concept that I need you to learn.
concept that I need you to learn. Let's go on to the next question.
