Kind: captions Language: en
Right, week five, everybody. Um, here I
Right, week five, everybody. Um, here I
Right, week five, everybody. Um, here I am again in the garage. It's a Sunday
am again in the garage. It's a Sunday
am again in the garage. It's a Sunday and this week,
and this week,
and this week, um, I'm going to make a video for every
um, I'm going to make a video for every
um, I'm going to make a video for every single one of these. You're welcome. Um,
single one of these. You're welcome. Um,
single one of these. You're welcome. Um, the reason I'm going to do that is
the reason I'm going to do that is
the reason I'm going to do that is because this
because this
because this this week will almost totally prepare
this week will almost totally prepare
this week will almost totally prepare you for the second assignment, which I'm
you for the second assignment, which I'm
you for the second assignment, which I'm probably going to release very soon if I
probably going to release very soon if I
probably going to release very soon if I haven't done so already.
haven't done so already.
haven't done so already. and it's really marking the the
and it's really marking the the
and it's really marking the the culmination of every you everything
culmination of every you everything
culmination of every you everything you've done over the last four weeks
you've done over the last four weeks
you've done over the last four weeks with a little bit of extra thrown in.
with a little bit of extra thrown in.
with a little bit of extra thrown in. We're going to talk about dictionaries
We're going to talk about dictionaries
We're going to talk about dictionaries and we're also going to talk about um
and we're also going to talk about um
and we're also going to talk about um file types that are associated with kind
file types that are associated with kind
file types that are associated with kind of biioinformatics genetics data sets.
of biioinformatics genetics data sets.
of biioinformatics genetics data sets. Um so those are faster and GFF. And if
Um so those are faster and GFF. And if
Um so those are faster and GFF. And if you haven't seen it yet, go and read it
you haven't seen it yet, go and read it
you haven't seen it yet, go and read it now. There's a primer in Canvas
now. There's a primer in Canvas
now. There's a primer in Canvas um in the week five module which you
um in the week five module which you
um in the week five module which you should go and read now. Um full
should go and read now. Um full
should go and read now. Um full disclosure for our second assignment,
disclosure for our second assignment,
disclosure for our second assignment, I'm only really going to need you to
I'm only really going to need you to
I'm only really going to need you to handle faster files. So that GFF data um
handle faster files. So that GFF data um
handle faster files. So that GFF data um it's for interest at the moment. Um we
it's for interest at the moment. Um we
it's for interest at the moment. Um we don't need to handle those. You you can
don't need to handle those. You you can
don't need to handle those. You you can this will hopefully this will make a lot
this will hopefully this will make a lot
this will hopefully this will make a lot more sense as we go through here and
more sense as we go through here and
more sense as we go through here and start answering these questions. So I'm
start answering these questions. So I'm
start answering these questions. So I'm going to dive in right now. We're going
going to dive in right now. We're going
going to dive in right now. We're going to start answering these questions. Um,
to start answering these questions. Um,
to start answering these questions. Um, question one. So, the first first five
question one. So, the first first five
question one. So, the first first five are kind of just introductory and then
are kind of just introductory and then
are kind of just introductory and then we'll go as usual look at some more kind
we'll go as usual look at some more kind
we'll go as usual look at some more kind of project based stuff afterwards. Bit
of project based stuff afterwards. Bit
of project based stuff afterwards. Bit longer. Um, so question one, I have got
longer. Um, so question one, I have got
longer. Um, so question one, I have got my
my
my um I've got I'm ready. I've got my
um I've got I'm ready. I've got my
um I've got I'm ready. I've got my Visual Studio Code running. Now, what
Visual Studio Code running. Now, what
Visual Studio Code running. Now, what I've done this week is I've actually
I've done this week is I've actually
I've done this week is I've actually created a folder called week five on my
created a folder called week five on my
created a folder called week five on my computer and then I've done file, open,
computer and then I've done file, open,
computer and then I've done file, open, and I'm in 733, but I've specifically
and I'm in 733, but I've specifically
and I'm in 733, but I've specifically opened up that file. Now, um I recommend
opened up that file. Now, um I recommend
opened up that file. Now, um I recommend you do that right now.
you do that right now.
you do that right now. And what I've done in here is I've added
And what I've done in here is I've added
And what I've done in here is I've added a couple of extra files. So, I've got my
a couple of extra files. So, I've got my
a couple of extra files. So, I've got my first problem file. That's great. I'm
first problem file. That's great. I'm
first problem file. That's great. I'm ready to go. And I've also got these
ready to go. And I've also got these
ready to go. And I've also got these two. So, there's a uh generate faster
two. So, there's a uh generate faster
two. So, there's a uh generate faster and GFF. And that is on Canvas right
and GFF. And that is on Canvas right
and GFF. And that is on Canvas right now. I'm just going to update that
now. I'm just going to update that
now. I'm just going to update that slightly.
slightly.
slightly. Um because this is not for the
Um because this is not for the
Um because this is not for the assignment. I've got another one of
assignment. I've got another one of
assignment. I've got another one of those.
Um and what these files will be doing is
Um and what these files will be doing is
Um and what these files will be doing is generating
generating
generating your own personal um faster file and GFF
your own personal um faster file and GFF
your own personal um faster file and GFF file for this workshop which you'll
file for this workshop which you'll
file for this workshop which you'll need.
need.
need. And um I want you to do this at some
And um I want you to do this at some
And um I want you to do this at some point during the workshop. I don't think
point during the workshop. I don't think
point during the workshop. I don't think we're doing it till question six, but
we're doing it till question six, but
we're doing it till question six, but you're going to need this file in your
you're going to need this file in your
you're going to need this file in your project now. So, I would I would get
project now. So, I would I would get
project now. So, I would I would get that ready to go. There's also a
that ready to go. There's also a
that ready to go. There's also a codeodon table which we're going to so
codeodon table which we're going to so
codeodon table which we're going to so we're going to do some um protein
we're going to do some um protein
we're going to do some um protein transcription. Um so, we're going to use
transcription. Um so, we're going to use
transcription. Um so, we're going to use this table as well. Um this is um you
this table as well. Um this is um you
this table as well. Um this is um you know, this is common knowledge, right?
know, this is common knowledge, right?
know, this is common knowledge, right? This is some this is this is something
This is some this is this is something
This is some this is this is something which I've got off the internet, but I
which I've got off the internet, but I
which I've got off the internet, but I put it into a Python file for now. Okay,
put it into a Python file for now. Okay,
put it into a Python file for now. Okay, let's have a look at the question.
let's have a look at the question.
let's have a look at the question. Question one,
Question one,
Question one, where is it? Hang on. Right. So firstly,
where is it? Hang on. Right. So firstly,
where is it? Hang on. Right. So firstly, we're going to um take a look at a
we're going to um take a look at a
we're going to um take a look at a dictionary. Um now we we have done some
dictionary. Um now we we have done some
dictionary. Um now we we have done some dictionary stuff already. Um but it
dictionary stuff already. Um but it
dictionary stuff already. Um but it hasn't I haven't explicitly explained
hasn't I haven't explicitly explained
hasn't I haven't explicitly explained how they work, I don't think. So I'm
how they work, I don't think. So I'm
how they work, I don't think. So I'm going to do that. Um let me read this
going to do that. Um let me read this
going to do that. Um let me read this question. Create a dictionary mapping
question. Create a dictionary mapping
question. Create a dictionary mapping three DNA codons and their amino acids.
three DNA codons and their amino acids.
three DNA codons and their amino acids. And I'm going to write code to uh look
And I'm going to write code to uh look
And I'm going to write code to uh look up the amino acid for a codon
up the amino acid for a codon
up the amino acid for a codon and
and
and add a new codeodon and amino acid pair.
add a new codeodon and amino acid pair.
add a new codeodon and amino acid pair. And then I want to loop through the
And then I want to loop through the
And then I want to loop through the dictionary and print all keys and
dictionary and print all keys and
dictionary and print all keys and values.
values.
values. Okay. Um let's take a look at that.
Okay. Um let's take a look at that.
Okay. Um let's take a look at that. So bear with me.
So bear with me.
So bear with me. I've got an example.
I've got an example.
I've got an example. Right. So,
Right. So,
Right. So, question one, we are going to um
question one, we are going to um
question one, we are going to um demonstrate
um creating and using a diction
um creating and using a diction
um creating and using a diction dictionary and in this case it's for DNA
dictionary and in this case it's for DNA
dictionary and in this case it's for DNA codons. Okay. Right. So, I'm going to
codons. Okay. Right. So, I'm going to
codons. Okay. Right. So, I'm going to I'm going to create a very small
I'm going to create a very small
I'm going to create a very small dictionary to begin with. create a uh
dictionary to begin with. create a uh
dictionary to begin with. create a uh dictionary.
dictionary.
dictionary. Right? So I'm going to create a
Right? So I'm going to create a
Right? So I'm going to create a dictionary called codons. Now codons is
dictionary called codons. Now codons is
dictionary called codons. Now codons is a variable name that I'm going to use
a variable name that I'm going to use
a variable name that I'm going to use again. And this is how I create a
again. And this is how I create a
again. And this is how I create a dictionary from scratch. Um curly
dictionary from scratch. Um curly
dictionary from scratch. Um curly bracket. Uh and I could start typing
bracket. Uh and I could start typing
bracket. Uh and I could start typing here, but because I like to be neat and
here, but because I like to be neat and
here, but because I like to be neat and tidy, I'm going to hit enter right
tidy, I'm going to hit enter right
tidy, I'm going to hit enter right there. Okay. And what that will do is
there. Okay. And what that will do is
there. Okay. And what that will do is will give me a nice um line space
will give me a nice um line space
will give me a nice um line space between my start and my finish bracket.
between my start and my finish bracket.
between my start and my finish bracket. And I can put multiple entries into this
And I can put multiple entries into this
And I can put multiple entries into this code on um and it'll look a bit neater.
code on um and it'll look a bit neater.
code on um and it'll look a bit neater. I can do this with a list as well, by
I can do this with a list as well, by
I can do this with a list as well, by the way, if I was using square brackets.
the way, if I was using square brackets.
the way, if I was using square brackets. Um let's just create a couple of um
Um let's just create a couple of um
Um let's just create a couple of um codeons here. So I'm going to have an
codeons here. So I'm going to have an
codeons here. So I'm going to have an ATG,
ATG,
ATG, which I know is um an M, capital M.
which I know is um an M, capital M.
which I know is um an M, capital M. I'm going to have a TT
and
and
and an F capital F. I'm going to use
an F capital F. I'm going to use
an F capital F. I'm going to use capitals for everything and I'm going to
capitals for everything and I'm going to
capitals for everything and I'm going to have a
have a
have a GGC
GGC
GGC for edgy.
for edgy.
for edgy. Okay. Um, right. So, a couple of talking
Okay. Um, right. So, a couple of talking
Okay. Um, right. So, a couple of talking points here. You'll notice I've got
points here. You'll notice I've got
points here. You'll notice I've got everything in this dictionary is a
everything in this dictionary is a
everything in this dictionary is a string. Okay. That's not always the
string. Okay. That's not always the
string. Okay. That's not always the case, but it is it is here. Um, this
case, but it is it is here. Um, this
case, but it is it is here. Um, this value here is what I call a key.
value here is what I call a key.
value here is what I call a key. So that is kind of the lookup key for my
So that is kind of the lookup key for my
So that is kind of the lookup key for my codon. I'll show you how that works in a
codon. I'll show you how that works in a
codon. I'll show you how that works in a second. And then I've got a colon and
second. And then I've got a colon and
second. And then I've got a colon and then everything after that is what we
then everything after that is what we
then everything after that is what we call the value. So these dictionaries
call the value. So these dictionaries
call the value. So these dictionaries are structured in what we call these key
are structured in what we call these key
are structured in what we call these key value pairs. Um and they're really
value pairs. Um and they're really
value pairs. Um and they're really really great way of storing information
really great way of storing information
really great way of storing information with a bit more data um than a a
with a bit more data um than a a
with a bit more data um than a a traditional list. List is very
traditional list. List is very
traditional list. List is very one-dimensional, isn't it? This is kind
one-dimensional, isn't it? This is kind
one-dimensional, isn't it? This is kind of two-dimensional really. Um, so I can
of two-dimensional really. Um, so I can
of two-dimensional really. Um, so I can find um the which protein I need for any
find um the which protein I need for any
find um the which protein I need for any triplet of DNA bases by looking up the
triplet of DNA bases by looking up the
triplet of DNA bases by looking up the triplet. Okay, let me show you um how
triplet. Okay, let me show you um how
triplet. Okay, let me show you um how that works. Um let's look up a codon.
that works. Um let's look up a codon.
that works. Um let's look up a codon. Okay. Um
Okay. Um
Okay. Um let's look up look
let's look up look
let's look up look look up a code on. Um, so
look up a code on. Um, so
look up a code on. Um, so I'm going to
I'm going to
I'm going to use codons.
use codons.
use codons. Codons. Let me spell a different word
Codons. Let me spell a different word
Codons. Let me spell a different word alto together then. Um,
alto together then. Um,
alto together then. Um, and I'm going to I'm going to get that.
and I'm going to I'm going to get that.
and I'm going to I'm going to get that. Um, where was it?
Uh, ATG. That's what I want. And
Uh, ATG. That's what I want. And
Uh, ATG. That's what I want. And actually, I want a code. Good grief. I
actually, I want a code. Good grief. I
actually, I want a code. Good grief. I actually want to wrap this in print
actually want to wrap this in print
actually want to wrap this in print statement. Print
statement. Print
statement. Print um I'll put something in here. Amino
um I'll put something in here. Amino
um I'll put something in here. Amino amino
amino
amino um acid.
um acid.
um acid. I said protein earlier but I meant amino
I said protein earlier but I meant amino
I said protein earlier but I meant amino acid for uh ATG. Okay.
Okay. Fantastic.
And let's run it. see what happens.
And let's run it. see what happens.
And let's run it. see what happens. Okay, so what's happened here is it's
Okay, so what's happened here is it's
Okay, so what's happened here is it's printed out amino acids for ATG and it's
printed out amino acids for ATG and it's
printed out amino acids for ATG and it's printed out the correct value. So this
printed out the correct value. So this
printed out the correct value. So this bit is the important bit, this codons
bit is the important bit, this codons
bit is the important bit, this codons ATG. So that is an immediate
ATG. So that is an immediate
ATG. So that is an immediate um kind of think of it like a an
um kind of think of it like a an
um kind of think of it like a an immediate function although it's got
immediate function although it's got
immediate function although it's got square brackets that will simply return
square brackets that will simply return
square brackets that will simply return the value associated with that key. So
the value associated with that key. So
the value associated with that key. So ever if ever you want to look up any
ever if ever you want to look up any
ever if ever you want to look up any value from a dictionary, you can do code
value from a dictionary, you can do code
value from a dictionary, you can do code on or dictionary square bracket give it
on or dictionary square bracket give it
on or dictionary square bracket give it the key and it will return to you what
the key and it will return to you what
the key and it will return to you what is stored in this value. Okay. Right. Um
is stored in this value. Okay. Right. Um
is stored in this value. Okay. Right. Um there was another part of this question
there was another part of this question
there was another part of this question and I wanted to I want to create
and I wanted to I want to create
and I wanted to I want to create um or add add a new codon
um or add add a new codon
um or add add a new codon amino
amino
amino um acid pair. Right? So the great thing
um acid pair. Right? So the great thing
um acid pair. Right? So the great thing about dictionaries is they are what we
about dictionaries is they are what we
about dictionaries is they are what we call mutable in Python. That means I can
call mutable in Python. That means I can
call mutable in Python. That means I can add stuff or take stuff away or change
add stuff or take stuff away or change
add stuff or take stuff away or change it. Um, so I can I can add something in
it. Um, so I can I can add something in
it. Um, so I can I can add something in to a to a dictionary in a really really
to a to a dictionary in a really really
to a to a dictionary in a really really simple way. In fact, it's easier than I
simple way. In fact, it's easier than I
simple way. In fact, it's easier than I would do this for a list. For a list, I
would do this for a list. For a list, I
would do this for a list. For a list, I would do append new item. I don't need
would do append new item. I don't need
would do append new item. I don't need don't even need to do that here. So I
don't even need to do that here. So I
don't even need to do that here. So I can just do codeons.
can just do codeons.
can just do codeons. And I can use that um that key lookup
And I can use that um that key lookup
And I can use that um that key lookup again, but instead of calling what I've
again, but instead of calling what I've
again, but instead of calling what I've already got, I'm going to create a
already got, I'm going to create a
already got, I'm going to create a completely new one. TG and I'm going to
completely new one. TG and I'm going to
completely new one. TG and I'm going to assign to it using the equal sign a W.
assign to it using the equal sign a W.
assign to it using the equal sign a W. Okay. And what that will do if I were to
Okay. And what that will do if I were to
Okay. And what that will do if I were to run this it would print out oh actually
run this it would print out oh actually
run this it would print out oh actually it won't it will create a new row in my
it won't it will create a new row in my
it won't it will create a new row in my codeon codeons dictionary and it'll be
codeon codeons dictionary and it'll be
codeon codeons dictionary and it'll be there. So just to prove that that's
there. So just to prove that that's
there. So just to prove that that's working I'm going to I'm going to create
working I'm going to I'm going to create
working I'm going to I'm going to create I'm going to do the last part of the
I'm going to do the last part of the
I'm going to do the last part of the task which is to print them out. So I
task which is to print them out. So I
task which is to print them out. So I want to loop through dictionary
want to loop through dictionary
want to loop through dictionary and print all key value pairs. That's
and print all key value pairs. That's
and print all key value pairs. That's the last thing of this problem. Um so
the last thing of this problem. Um so
the last thing of this problem. Um so I'm going to use I'm I'm going to keep
I'm going to use I'm I'm going to keep
I'm going to use I'm I'm going to keep this straightforward. I'm going to use a
this straightforward. I'm going to use a
this straightforward. I'm going to use a for loop, but I'm going to use slightly
for loop, but I'm going to use slightly
for loop, but I'm going to use slightly something slightly different here. Now
something slightly different here. Now
something slightly different here. Now because I'm I'm not looping over a list.
because I'm I'm not looping over a list.
because I'm I'm not looping over a list. If it was a list, I could just do for
If it was a list, I could just do for
If it was a list, I could just do for item in um list and print that out. But
item in um list and print that out. But
item in um list and print that out. But because I've got these key value pairs,
because I've got these key value pairs,
because I've got these key value pairs, I actually want to loop over both the
I actually want to loop over both the
I actually want to loop over both the keys and the values at the same time.
keys and the values at the same time.
keys and the values at the same time. Okay. So, um I could I could have done
Okay. So, um I could I could have done
Okay. So, um I could I could have done it with a single variable um and used
it with a single variable um and used
it with a single variable um and used this notation to call it each time, but
this notation to call it each time, but
this notation to call it each time, but a much easier way to do that is to use a
a much easier way to do that is to use a
a much easier way to do that is to use a combination of um temporary variables
combination of um temporary variables
combination of um temporary variables here. So, codon,
here. So, codon,
here. So, codon, aa. So, I'm going to get the codon,
aa. So, I'm going to get the codon,
aa. So, I'm going to get the codon, that's the key, and the amino acid,
that's the key, and the amino acid,
that's the key, and the amino acid, that's the value in um codons. Now, it
that's the value in um codons. Now, it
that's the value in um codons. Now, it wouldn't work if I just use codons. I
wouldn't work if I just use codons. I
wouldn't work if I just use codons. I have to do a dot items at the end here.
have to do a dot items at the end here.
have to do a dot items at the end here. Just trust me on that. And then I'm
Just trust me on that. And then I'm
Just trust me on that. And then I'm going to print um codon.
going to print um codon.
going to print um codon. And then I'm going to just add a little
And then I'm going to just add a little
And then I'm going to just add a little hyphen there so I know it. And I'm going
hyphen there so I know it. And I'm going
hyphen there so I know it. And I'm going to print that out. And if I do that,
to print that out. And if I do that,
to print that out. And if I do that, there we go. I get my table out. And you
there we go. I get my table out. And you
there we go. I get my table out. And you can see I've got an extra code on at the
can see I've got an extra code on at the
can see I've got an extra code on at the end there. Um, in addition to the the
end there. Um, in addition to the the
end there. Um, in addition to the the one that I' ones that I've defined
one that I' ones that I've defined
one that I' ones that I've defined manually with I that's why I did it
manually with I that's why I did it
manually with I that's why I did it here. And you can see I can run that as
here. And you can see I can run that as
here. And you can see I can run that as many times as I want and it won't just
many times as I want and it won't just
many times as I want and it won't just keep adding TGS. It will override the
keep adding TGS. It will override the
keep adding TGS. It will override the one I've got. So I'll always have four
one I've got. So I'll always have four
one I've got. So I'll always have four colons in that dictionary. Okay. Um,
colons in that dictionary. Okay. Um,
colons in that dictionary. Okay. Um, that's question one. Uh, let's move on.
