Kind: captions Language: en
Let's move on to the next question.
Let's have a look. Okay. DNA case and
Let's have a look. Okay. DNA case and
Let's have a look. Okay. DNA case and length. So, the next thing you're going
length. So, the next thing you're going
length. So, the next thing you're going to do is let's have a think. Okay. We're
to do is let's have a think. Okay. We're
to do is let's have a think. Okay. We're going to prompt you for a DNA sequence.
going to prompt you for a DNA sequence.
going to prompt you for a DNA sequence. So, that's any letters
So, that's any letters
So, that's any letters um A, C, G, and T. Then, we're going to
um A, C, G, and T. Then, we're going to
um A, C, G, and T. Then, we're going to print an uppercase version and then a
print an uppercase version and then a
print an uppercase version and then a lowerase version. So, before I tell you
lowerase version. So, before I tell you
lowerase version. So, before I tell you how to do this, go and figure it out.
how to do this, go and figure it out.
how to do this, go and figure it out. see if you can do it. And we're also
see if you can do it. And we're also
see if you can do it. And we're also going to print the length. So there's
going to print the length. So there's
going to print the length. So there's going to be a useful function we're
going to be a useful function we're
going to be a useful function we're going to add to this which will tell you
going to add to this which will tell you
going to add to this which will tell you how long a string is. Right. So the
how long a string is. Right. So the
how long a string is. Right. So the first thing I'm going to do, I'm going
first thing I'm going to do, I'm going
first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to go back here. I'm going to create a
to go back here. I'm going to create a
to go back here. I'm going to create a new file.
new file.
new file. Yes, it's going to be I could have done
Yes, it's going to be I could have done
Yes, it's going to be I could have done that. I sometimes prefer to do it from
that. I sometimes prefer to do it from
that. I sometimes prefer to do it from here.
here.
here. Yeah. So Q2.py.
Yeah. So Q2.py.
Yeah. So Q2.py. Okay.
Okay.
Okay. And I'm going to What have we done
And I'm going to What have we done
And I'm going to What have we done there? I'm going to ask the user
there? I'm going to ask the user
there? I'm going to ask the user uh I'm going to define a variable called
uh I'm going to define a variable called
uh I'm going to define a variable called sequence. I'm going to ask for an input
sequence. I'm going to ask for an input
sequence. I'm going to ask for an input and uh please input
and uh please input
and uh please input a DNA sequence.
Right.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay. And that if I run that, let me if I do
And that if I run that, let me if I do
And that if I run that, let me if I do control and L on my terminal here, it
control and L on my terminal here, it
control and L on my terminal here, it will clear that. So if I just run it,
will clear that. So if I just run it,
will clear that. So if I just run it, it'll just ask me for for this. So
let's do actg.
let's do actg.
let's do actg. Okay. But nothing happens because I
Okay. But nothing happens because I
Okay. But nothing happens because I haven't told it to do anything else. So
haven't told it to do anything else. So
haven't told it to do anything else. So what I want to do is I want to I want to
what I want to do is I want to I want to
what I want to do is I want to I want to print out three things. First thing I
print out three things. First thing I
print out three things. First thing I want to print out is the sequence in
want to print out is the sequence in
want to print out is the sequence in lower case. So I need to convert it to
lower case. So I need to convert it to
lower case. So I need to convert it to lower. Then I want to do it in
lower. Then I want to do it in
lower. Then I want to do it in uppercase. And then the last thing I
uppercase. And then the last thing I
uppercase. And then the last thing I want to do is print out the length of
want to do is print out the length of
want to do is print out the length of the sequence. Okay. I'm going to use
the sequence. Okay. I'm going to use
the sequence. Okay. I'm going to use print statements for all of these.
print statements for all of these.
print statements for all of these. Prints open bracket.
Prints open bracket.
Prints open bracket. I'm going to do sequence.
I'm going to do sequence.
I'm going to do sequence. Can you guess what I'm going to do next?
Can you guess what I'm going to do next?
Can you guess what I'm going to do next? It's going to be a dot
It's going to be a dot
It's going to be a dot lower
lower
lower open bracket close bracket. And that is
open bracket close bracket. And that is
open bracket close bracket. And that is a method that I can apply to the
a method that I can apply to the
a method that I can apply to the variable sequence which has been stored
variable sequence which has been stored
variable sequence which has been stored as a string. Okay. So the anything with
as a string. Okay. So the anything with
as a string. Okay. So the anything with a dot dot on it and then something
a dot dot on it and then something
a dot dot on it and then something afterwards we call that a method. Okay.
afterwards we call that a method. Okay.
afterwards we call that a method. Okay. And because I it is essentially a
And because I it is essentially a
And because I it is essentially a function I have to include an open
function I have to include an open
function I have to include an open bracket close bracket afterwards. But
bracket close bracket afterwards. But
bracket close bracket afterwards. But because I don't need to feed it any
because I don't need to feed it any
because I don't need to feed it any additional parameters or information it
additional parameters or information it
additional parameters or information it there's nothing in there. Okay. If I run
there's nothing in there. Okay. If I run
there's nothing in there. Okay. If I run that again and then do um let's do A C T
that again and then do um let's do A C T
that again and then do um let's do A C T G. So I'll mix up my cases there. There
G. So I'll mix up my cases there. There
G. So I'll mix up my cases there. There we go. It'll print that out. Uh let's
we go. It'll print that out. Uh let's
we go. It'll print that out. Uh let's print out it in lower case. Uh sorry,
print out it in lower case. Uh sorry,
print out it in lower case. Uh sorry, uppercase. Can you guess what that is?
uppercase. Can you guess what that is?
uppercase. Can you guess what that is? Yeah, you got it. And then the last
Yeah, you got it. And then the last
Yeah, you got it. And then the last thing I want to do is print out the
thing I want to do is print out the
thing I want to do is print out the length of the string. So there is a
length of the string. So there is a
length of the string. So there is a function
function
function called len open bracket
called len open bracket
called len open bracket that I can put my sequence into and
that I can put my sequence into and
that I can put my sequence into and it will essentially count the number of
it will essentially count the number of
it will essentially count the number of characters and then print that out. Now
characters and then print that out. Now
characters and then print that out. Now you notice I couldn't do sequence.len.
you notice I couldn't do sequence.len.
you notice I couldn't do sequence.len. Okay, it's a slightly different way. So
Okay, it's a slightly different way. So
Okay, it's a slightly different way. So this is a this is a a function which I
this is a this is a a function which I
this is a this is a a function which I apply to the string but these are
apply to the string but these are
apply to the string but these are methods that are intr intrinsically
methods that are intr intrinsically
methods that are intr intrinsically associated with the string. Don't don't
associated with the string. Don't don't
associated with the string. Don't don't worry too much about the terminology.
worry too much about the terminology.
worry too much about the terminology. What should happen once I run these four
What should happen once I run these four
What should happen once I run these four lines
lines
lines is
is
is I'll put in uh at CCC GD.
I put some capitals in there as well.
I put some capitals in there as well.
I put some capitals in there as well. Okay.
Run that. And there we go. It's giving
Run that. And there we go. It's giving
Run that. And there we go. It's giving me a lower case, uppercase, and there
me a lower case, uppercase, and there
me a lower case, uppercase, and there were 19 characters in there. Okay.
were 19 characters in there. Okay.
were 19 characters in there. Okay. Right.
