Kind: captions Language: en
see what's happening in the next
see what's happening in the next
see what's happening in the next question.
Question four, reverse sequence.
Question four, reverse sequence.
Question four, reverse sequence. H. So, we're going to ask for a DNA
H. So, we're going to ask for a DNA
H. So, we're going to ask for a DNA string and print its reverse.
string and print its reverse.
string and print its reverse. Okay. And it says no translation yet cuz
Okay. And it says no translation yet cuz
Okay. And it says no translation yet cuz we're going to do uh some sort of
we're going to do uh some sort of
we're going to do uh some sort of translation later.
translation later.
translation later. Um, we just want to reverse the
Um, we just want to reverse the
Um, we just want to reverse the characters. Okay.
How do we do that? I know how to do
How do we do that? I know how to do
How do we do that? I know how to do that. Let me show you. This is a This is
that. Let me show you. This is a This is
that. Let me show you. This is a This is the way I do this.
the way I do this.
the way I do this. Uh Q.
Uh Q.
Uh Q. So again, sequence equals input.
So again, sequence equals input.
So again, sequence equals input. Please input a sequence.
Please input a sequence.
Please input a sequence. Uh okay.
Uh okay.
Uh okay. Colon space.
Then I want to
Then I want to
Then I want to I'm going to I'm actually going to
I'm going to I'm actually going to
I'm going to I'm actually going to create another variable for reverse
create another variable for reverse
create another variable for reverse or reverse sequence.
or reverse sequence.
or reverse sequence. Um
Um
Um now input
now input
now input oh no sorry sequence. Now the way I do
oh no sorry sequence. Now the way I do
oh no sorry sequence. Now the way I do this and we're going to get to string
this and we're going to get to string
this and we're going to get to string slicing um in a little while
slicing um in a little while
slicing um in a little while but you'll just have to trust me for
but you'll just have to trust me for
but you'll just have to trust me for this one. I use colon colon minus one.
this one. I use colon colon minus one.
this one. I use colon colon minus one. Okay. Now, we'll discuss um string
Okay. Now, we'll discuss um string
Okay. Now, we'll discuss um string slicing in a few further exercises as we
slicing in a few further exercises as we
slicing in a few further exercises as we go along. But what we're essentially
go along. But what we're essentially
go along. But what we're essentially trying to do here is tell it that
trying to do here is tell it that
trying to do here is tell it that um you want
um you want
um you want to ignore where we're starting from,
to ignore where we're starting from,
to ignore where we're starting from, which is why there's a black before the
which is why there's a black before the
which is why there's a black before the first colon. Ignore where we're
first colon. Ignore where we're
first colon. Ignore where we're finishing.
finishing.
finishing. And then we want to cycle in steps of
And then we want to cycle in steps of
And then we want to cycle in steps of one, but we want to go in the opposite
one, but we want to go in the opposite
one, but we want to go in the opposite direction.
direction.
direction. Okay. So, we're going to just print the
Okay. So, we're going to just print the
Okay. So, we're going to just print the whole thing backwards. And then we're
whole thing backwards. And then we're
whole thing backwards. And then we're going to print
going to print
going to print reverse seek. I can't remember if it
reverse seek. I can't remember if it
reverse seek. I can't remember if it needed to be up or lower, but I'm going
needed to be up or lower, but I'm going
needed to be up or lower, but I'm going to hit it with the upper method as well.
to hit it with the upper method as well.
to hit it with the upper method as well. And then I'm going to print it out. So,
And then I'm going to print it out. So,
And then I'm going to print it out. So, actga.
actga.
actga. Okay. Um
Okay. Um
Okay. Um let me just talk about um slicing in a
let me just talk about um slicing in a
let me just talk about um slicing in a bit more detail here
bit more on slicing.
bit more on slicing.
bit more on slicing. So let's say I took that sequence and I
So let's say I took that sequence and I
So let's say I took that sequence and I only let's say I only wanted to print
only let's say I only wanted to print
only let's say I only wanted to print the the first character in the sequence,
the the first character in the sequence,
the the first character in the sequence, right?
right?
right? First character
First character
First character I would have done print
I would have done print
I would have done print sequence
sequence
sequence zero. Okay. And if I do that again, I
zero. Okay. And if I do that again, I
zero. Okay. And if I do that again, I can see acg
can see acg
can see acg I just get the A there. Brilliant.
I just get the A there. Brilliant.
I just get the A there. Brilliant. And the reason I did that is because you
And the reason I did that is because you
And the reason I did that is because you can think of this actg
can think of this actg
can think of this actg even though it's a string you can think
even though it's a string you can think
even though it's a string you can think of it as a list of things. Okay? And
of it as a list of things. Okay? And
of it as a list of things. Okay? And we'll come on to lists in a couple of
we'll come on to lists in a couple of
we'll come on to lists in a couple of weeks time. Um now Python
weeks time. Um now Python
weeks time. Um now Python always starts labeling or numbering or
always starts labeling or numbering or
always starts labeling or numbering or indexing is the word I want to use its
indexing is the word I want to use its
indexing is the word I want to use its lists from zero. So if you have a load
lists from zero. So if you have a load
lists from zero. So if you have a load of stuff in a list, the first index will
of stuff in a list, the first index will
of stuff in a list, the first index will always be zero. That's different to
always be zero. That's different to
always be zero. That's different to other coding languages. And if you come
other coding languages. And if you come
other coding languages. And if you come and do R with me later on, you'll know
and do R with me later on, you'll know
and do R with me later on, you'll know that in R they start at one. Okay, so
that in R they start at one. Okay, so
that in R they start at one. Okay, so just be very very mindful of that. Um,
just be very very mindful of that. Um,
just be very very mindful of that. Um, if I wanted the last item in the list, I
if I wanted the last item in the list, I
if I wanted the last item in the list, I could have done 0 1 2 3. So I would have
could have done 0 1 2 3. So I would have
could have done 0 1 2 3. So I would have put three in there. So let's do the last
put three in there. So let's do the last
put three in there. So let's do the last character.
Uh, and I would have put a Oh, it's got
Uh, and I would have put a Oh, it's got
Uh, and I would have put a Oh, it's got to be a square bracket. That's really
to be a square bracket. That's really
to be a square bracket. That's really important.
important.
important. If I run that
If I run that
If I run that AC, oops, oopsy daisy.
AC, oops, oopsy daisy.
AC, oops, oopsy daisy. ACTG.
ACTG.
ACTG. And I got a G on the end of it, which is
And I got a G on the end of it, which is
And I got a G on the end of it, which is the last character. Okay.
the last character. Okay.
the last character. Okay. Right. Um, I can do a few other things.
Right. Um, I can do a few other things.
Right. Um, I can do a few other things. I can print a range of characters. So
I can print a range of characters. So
I can print a range of characters. So let's say I want to print um all
let's say I want to print um all
let's say I want to print um all characters
between first and last. Okay.
between first and last. Okay.
between first and last. Okay. So to do that,
So to do that,
So to do that, I want to start at
I want to start at
I want to start at one. So that's the first one after the
one. So that's the first one after the
one. So that's the first one after the zeroth one. And then I'm going to use a
zeroth one. And then I'm going to use a
zeroth one. And then I'm going to use a colon. And I want to
colon. And I want to
colon. And I want to go
go
go all the way to the end. Is that going to
all the way to the end. Is that going to
all the way to the end. Is that going to be work? Let's just see what happens
be work? Let's just see what happens
be work? Let's just see what happens here. So if I did three, the second
here. So if I did three, the second
here. So if I did three, the second integer in this one colon 3 is not
integer in this one colon 3 is not
integer in this one colon 3 is not inclusive. So I actually need to go to
inclusive. So I actually need to go to
inclusive. So I actually need to go to four. So what it'll do, it'll start at
four. So what it'll do, it'll start at
four. So what it'll do, it'll start at one and go one, two, three, but won't
one and go one, two, three, but won't
one and go one, two, three, but won't print the fourth. Okay. So if I show you
print the fourth. Okay. So if I show you
print the fourth. Okay. So if I show you how that works, we will do actg. There
how that works, we will do actg. There
how that works, we will do actg. There we go. And it's done. Oh, it has printed
we go. And it's done. Oh, it has printed
we go. And it's done. Oh, it has printed the file. I've got that wrong. So
the file. I've got that wrong. So
the file. I've got that wrong. So actually I need to go to
actually I need to go to
actually I need to go to three there. Okay, my bad. Um
three there. Okay, my bad. Um
three there. Okay, my bad. Um ACG.
ACG.
ACG. There we go. It's just pres printed C
There we go. It's just pres printed C
There we go. It's just pres printed C and T. Okay. Um there's another So say I
and T. Okay. Um there's another So say I
and T. Okay. Um there's another So say I get um a really long string and I don't
get um a really long string and I don't
get um a really long string and I don't know how long it is but I still know I
know how long it is but I still know I
know how long it is but I still know I want to print all the characters between
want to print all the characters between
want to print all the characters between the first and the last. Then I can do
the first and the last. Then I can do
the first and the last. Then I can do something a a bit interesting with my
something a a bit interesting with my
something a a bit interesting with my last character because I can actually
last character because I can actually
last character because I can actually use a minus one to get the last
use a minus one to get the last
use a minus one to get the last character. Now what the minus one is
character. Now what the minus one is
character. Now what the minus one is essentially telling your indexer is okay
essentially telling your indexer is okay
essentially telling your indexer is okay don't worry about how long it is let's
don't worry about how long it is let's
don't worry about how long it is let's just go back to the end and that is my
just go back to the end and that is my
just go back to the end and that is my last character. So you can go you can
last character. So you can go you can
last character. So you can go you can cycle through strings and lists in both
cycle through strings and lists in both
cycle through strings and lists in both directions. Okay. So if I want to do the
directions. Okay. So if I want to do the
directions. Okay. So if I want to do the same thing I would do minus one here and
same thing I would do minus one here and
same thing I would do minus one here and hopefully I'll prove to you that I can
hopefully I'll prove to you that I can
hopefully I'll prove to you that I can do that.
do that.
do that. There we go. Okay. One last thing, I can
There we go. Okay. One last thing, I can
There we go. Okay. One last thing, I can um
um
um print every second
print every second
print every second uh
uh
uh every second character.
every second character.
every second character. So I want to only print. So I would I
So I want to only print. So I would I
So I want to only print. So I would I only want to print
only want to print
only want to print um C and G in this case. So if I wanted
um C and G in this case. So if I wanted
um C and G in this case. So if I wanted to do that, I would do
to do that, I would do
to do that, I would do sequence. I still want to start at zero
sequence. I still want to start at zero
sequence. I still want to start at zero and I want to finish on the last one.
and I want to finish on the last one.
and I want to finish on the last one. Uh actually I'm going to put four there
Uh actually I'm going to put four there
Uh actually I'm going to put four there to make it more cleaner. But I want to
to make it more cleaner. But I want to
to make it more cleaner. But I want to jump through in steps of two. Okay. So I
jump through in steps of two. Okay. So I
jump through in steps of two. Okay. So I can put another colon and the value here
can put another colon and the value here
can put another colon and the value here will will specify
will will specify
will will specify how many characters I want to jump in
how many characters I want to jump in
how many characters I want to jump in between. Okay. Let's run that. Act G and
between. Okay. Let's run that. Act G and
between. Okay. Let's run that. Act G and there you go. It's done A and T. So it's
there you go. It's done A and T. So it's
there you go. It's done A and T. So it's actually done the zeroth and the
actually done the zeroth and the
actually done the zeroth and the seconds index. So if I started one, it
seconds index. So if I started one, it
seconds index. So if I started one, it should do C and G here. Now
there we go. All right. So there that's
there we go. All right. So there that's
there we go. All right. So there that's a bit more on string slicing. Um that is
a bit more on string slicing. Um that is
a bit more on string slicing. Um that is something which you are going to need to
something which you are going to need to
something which you are going to need to know. Let's go on to the next question.
