Kind: captions Language: en
Okay, question five. Boolean logic. H.
Okay, question five. Boolean logic. H.
Okay, question five. Boolean logic. H. Now, this this one kind of it's perhaps
Now, this this one kind of it's perhaps
Now, this this one kind of it's perhaps steps up the difficulty a little bit.
steps up the difficulty a little bit.
steps up the difficulty a little bit. So, we got a few interesting concepts to
So, we got a few interesting concepts to
So, we got a few interesting concepts to discuss here. First of all, what the
discuss here. First of all, what the
discuss here. First of all, what the hell is a boolean? That's a simple
hell is a boolean? That's a simple
hell is a boolean? That's a simple answer. It's either true or false. So,
answer. It's either true or false. So,
answer. It's either true or false. So, there's a a native data type in Python
there's a a native data type in Python
there's a a native data type in Python called boolean. And it will it will take
called boolean. And it will it will take
called boolean. And it will it will take one of two values which is true or
one of two values which is true or
one of two values which is true or false. Now Python typically
false. Now Python typically
false. Now Python typically if you ask it to print out a bool it
if you ask it to print out a bool it
if you ask it to print out a bool it will give you a true or a false value.
will give you a true or a false value.
will give you a true or a false value. But actually what it's storing
But actually what it's storing
But actually what it's storing underneath is a one or a zero which of
underneath is a one or a zero which of
underneath is a one or a zero which of course really is how your entire
course really is how your entire
course really is how your entire computer works on ones and zeros.
computer works on ones and zeros.
computer works on ones and zeros. Everything's either true or false. Okay.
Everything's either true or false. Okay.
Everything's either true or false. Okay. And you can actually build up um
And you can actually build up um
And you can actually build up um representations of anything else using
representations of anything else using
representations of anything else using boolean. It could be, you know, um it
boolean. It could be, you know, um it
boolean. It could be, you know, um it could be a number. It could be a string.
could be a number. It could be a string.
could be a number. It could be a string. And there are way complex ways of doing
And there are way complex ways of doing
And there are way complex ways of doing that we're not going to discuss today.
that we're not going to discuss today.
that we're not going to discuss today. Um the objective here is to take two
Um the objective here is to take two
Um the objective here is to take two boolean inputs. Actually, actually not
boolean inputs. Actually, actually not
boolean inputs. Actually, actually not even that. It's going to take two inputs
even that. It's going to take two inputs
even that. It's going to take two inputs as strings.
as strings.
as strings. And those strings can either be yes or
And those strings can either be yes or
And those strings can either be yes or no. And then convert them into true or
no. And then convert them into true or
no. And then convert them into true or false where yes is true and no is false.
false where yes is true and no is false.
false where yes is true and no is false. and then do some conditional statement
and then do some conditional statement
and then do some conditional statement where if both of them are true, do this.
where if both of them are true, do this.
where if both of them are true, do this. If only one of them is true or none of
If only one of them is true or none of
If only one of them is true or none of them are true, do this. Okay, so let's
them are true, do this. Okay, so let's
them are true, do this. Okay, so let's think about this as we go along. The
think about this as we go along. The
think about this as we go along. The first thing of course I've got to do is
first thing of course I've got to do is
first thing of course I've got to do is I've got to take in those inputs from
I've got to take in those inputs from
I've got to take in those inputs from the user. So I'm asking the user two for
the user. So I'm asking the user two for
the user. So I'm asking the user two for two things. One, do they have a lab
two things. One, do they have a lab
two things. One, do they have a lab coat? So sorry, sorry, start with the ID
coat? So sorry, sorry, start with the ID
coat? So sorry, sorry, start with the ID card. Um, do they have an ID card? So,
card. Um, do they have an ID card? So,
card. Um, do they have an ID card? So, I'm going to create a variable called ID
I'm going to create a variable called ID
I'm going to create a variable called ID card. Uh, input,
card. Uh, input,
card. Uh, input, and I'm going to put, do you have an ID
and I'm going to put, do you have an ID
and I'm going to put, do you have an ID card?
card?
card? Uh, and I'm going to help them out a
Uh, and I'm going to help them out a
Uh, and I'm going to help them out a little bit
little bit
little bit by saying by giving them their options,
by saying by giving them their options,
by saying by giving them their options, yes or no. Okay.
yes or no. Okay.
yes or no. Okay. Colon space.
Colon space.
Colon space. Um, I also want to know if they have a
Um, I also want to know if they have a
Um, I also want to know if they have a lab code
lab code
lab code input.
input.
input. Do you have a lab code?
Do you have a lab code?
Do you have a lab code? Yes or no?
Okay, so I can get those inputs. Um, my
Okay, so I can get those inputs. Um, my
Okay, so I can get those inputs. Um, my problem now is how do I convert those
problem now is how do I convert those
problem now is how do I convert those yes or no responses into
yes or no responses into
yes or no responses into boolean H. Now, I've actually forgotten
boolean H. Now, I've actually forgotten
boolean H. Now, I've actually forgotten how to do this. So,
how to do this. So,
how to do this. So, I'm going to do something a little
I'm going to do something a little
I'm going to do something a little different this time. This is this is
different this time. This is this is
different this time. This is this is just so I can understand what I'm doing.
just so I can understand what I'm doing.
just so I can understand what I'm doing. If ever you want to just type a line of
If ever you want to just type a line of
If ever you want to just type a line of Python, then you can go down to your
Python, then you can go down to your
Python, then you can go down to your your terminal down here and just type
your terminal down here and just type
your terminal down here and just type Python in. Okay? And that will open up a
Python in. Okay? And that will open up a
Python in. Okay? And that will open up a Python terminal. So I can I can just
Python terminal. So I can I can just
Python terminal. So I can I can just type any line of code in here. So for
type any line of code in here. So for
type any line of code in here. So for example,
example,
example, um
um
um if I go ID card
if I go ID card
if I go ID card equals um I'm just going to put yes for
equals um I'm just going to put yes for
equals um I'm just going to put yes for now, that will create a variable called
now, that will create a variable called
now, that will create a variable called ID card. It will store a string yes in
ID card. It will store a string yes in
ID card. It will store a string yes in it. Okay. Now I want to convert that
it. Okay. Now I want to convert that
it. Okay. Now I want to convert that into boolean. So I don't want it to say
into boolean. So I don't want it to say
into boolean. So I don't want it to say yes. I want it to be true or false. So I
yes. I want it to be true or false. So I
yes. I want it to be true or false. So I think I remember if I do this I'm going
think I remember if I do this I'm going
think I remember if I do this I'm going to reuse my variable ID card and I'm
to reuse my variable ID card and I'm
to reuse my variable ID card and I'm going to assign to that the following
going to assign to that the following
going to assign to that the following statements. Okay. And that is going to
statements. Okay. And that is going to
statements. Okay. And that is going to be ID card
be ID card
be ID card is equal to yes.
is equal to yes.
is equal to yes. Okay. And I'll hit enter. Oh, that
Okay. And I'll hit enter. Oh, that
Okay. And I'll hit enter. Oh, that worked. Let me just output ID card now.
worked. Let me just output ID card now.
worked. Let me just output ID card now. See what happens. Oh, now I've got true.
See what happens. Oh, now I've got true.
See what happens. Oh, now I've got true. So now I've converted that yes into a
So now I've converted that yes into a
So now I've converted that yes into a true. So this is how I'm going to do it.
true. So this is how I'm going to do it.
true. So this is how I'm going to do it. Now let's explain what's gone on here. I
Now let's explain what's gone on here. I
Now let's explain what's gone on here. I have taken my existing
have taken my existing
have taken my existing variable which at that point was the
variable which at that point was the
variable which at that point was the word yes stored as a string and I've
word yes stored as a string and I've
word yes stored as a string and I've compared it to an identical string. Yes.
compared it to an identical string. Yes.
compared it to an identical string. Yes. Now in that case if something is equal
Now in that case if something is equal
Now in that case if something is equal to something
to something
to something then that is true. So then it is
then that is true. So then it is
then that is true. So then it is returned a true
returned a true
returned a true value to my ID card. It's overwritten
value to my ID card. It's overwritten
value to my ID card. It's overwritten that yes that was stored in that
that yes that was stored in that
that yes that was stored in that variable originally. So that's what I'm
variable originally. So that's what I'm
variable originally. So that's what I'm going to do here. So I'm going to put in
going to do here. So I'm going to put in
going to do here. So I'm going to put in a little note convert input into
a little note convert input into
a little note convert input into boolean. Okay. So I'm going to use the
boolean. Okay. So I'm going to use the
boolean. Okay. So I'm going to use the ID card and I'm going to do exactly what
ID card and I'm going to do exactly what
ID card and I'm going to do exactly what I did below. ID card equals
I did below. ID card equals
I did below. ID card equals or double equals
or double equals
or double equals yes
yes
yes and lab coat
and lab coat
and lab coat equals ID card equals
equals ID card equals
equals ID card equals no. Oops, sorry. Yes, it's always yes.
no. Oops, sorry. Yes, it's always yes.
no. Oops, sorry. Yes, it's always yes. Now, let me let me show you what would
Now, let me let me show you what would
Now, let me let me show you what would have happened if I'd run um
have happened if I'd run um
have happened if I'd run um let's do this again, right? ID card
let's do this again, right? ID card
let's do this again, right? ID card equals yes. So I'm going to give an
equals yes. So I'm going to give an
equals yes. So I'm going to give an input of yes. If I
input of yes. If I
input of yes. If I let's actually sorry let's do ID card
let's actually sorry let's do ID card
let's actually sorry let's do ID card equal no this time.
equal no this time.
equal no this time. Okay. If I had done a no
then what will happen? Oops.
Is this time I'll get a false. So if I
Is this time I'll get a false. So if I
Is this time I'll get a false. So if I make a comparison between
make a comparison between
make a comparison between the input string and the yes, if it is
the input string and the yes, if it is
the input string and the yes, if it is not yes, it's no in this case, then it
not yes, it's no in this case, then it
not yes, it's no in this case, then it will return false. So anytime the user
will return false. So anytime the user
will return false. So anytime the user inputs a no instead of a yes, I will
inputs a no instead of a yes, I will
inputs a no instead of a yes, I will store a variable false to those original
store a variable false to those original
store a variable false to those original variables. Okay, now I've just got to do
variables. Okay, now I've just got to do
variables. Okay, now I've just got to do some logic to make sure that the user
some logic to make sure that the user
some logic to make sure that the user has both things. So that's pretty
has both things. So that's pretty
has both things. So that's pretty straightforward actually. if ID card
straightforward actually. if ID card
straightforward actually. if ID card um and so I've used an and statement
um and so I've used an and statement
um and so I've used an and statement there and lab coat.
there and lab coat.
there and lab coat. So if they have both of those things if
So if they have both of those things if
So if they have both of those things if both of those things are true
both of those things are true
both of those things are true then print
then print
then print access granted.
access granted.
access granted. Oops that'll do.
Oops that'll do.
Oops that'll do. Otherwise, else print access denies.
Okay, I'm just going to exit my
Okay, I'm just going to exit my
Okay, I'm just going to exit my terminal, my Python terminal, sorry, and
terminal, my Python terminal, sorry, and
terminal, my Python terminal, sorry, and come back to my command line. And this
come back to my command line. And this
come back to my command line. And this time when I run this,
time when I run this,
time when I run this, okay, do I have an ID card? Yes. Do I
okay, do I have an ID card? Yes. Do I
okay, do I have an ID card? Yes. Do I have a lab code? Yes. Access denied. Hm,
have a lab code? Yes. Access denied. Hm,
have a lab code? Yes. Access denied. Hm, interesting. So, something has happened
interesting. So, something has happened
interesting. So, something has happened there. Aha, I can see what's happened.
there. Aha, I can see what's happened.
there. Aha, I can see what's happened. I've accidentally used the ID card
I've accidentally used the ID card
I've accidentally used the ID card again.
again.
again. And the reason why this has returned a
And the reason why this has returned a
And the reason why this has returned a false to lab coat is because I've
false to lab coat is because I've
false to lab coat is because I've already written overritten the ID card
already written overritten the ID card
already written overritten the ID card with a true and true the boolean is not
with a true and true the boolean is not
with a true and true the boolean is not equal to yes the string. So I've got to
equal to yes the string. So I've got to
equal to yes the string. So I've got to make sure I'm consistent with my
make sure I'm consistent with my
make sure I'm consistent with my variables lab coat. Oops.
variables lab coat. Oops.
variables lab coat. Oops. This time when I run it,
This time when I run it,
This time when I run it, yes. Yes, access is granted. Uh, let's
yes. Yes, access is granted. Uh, let's
yes. Yes, access is granted. Uh, let's try yes and no.
try yes and no.
try yes and no. Access denied. And let's also try no and
Access denied. And let's also try no and
Access denied. And let's also try no and yes. Now, I put a sneaky space at the
yes. Now, I put a sneaky space at the
yes. Now, I put a sneaky space at the end of no there.
end of no there.
end of no there. Well, that's okay. It shouldn't matter.
Well, that's okay. It shouldn't matter.
Well, that's okay. It shouldn't matter. I could have done something like yes
I could have done something like yes
I could have done something like yes space and then yes space and access is
space and then yes space and access is
space and then yes space and access is denied. And that's because there's
denied. And that's because there's
denied. And that's because there's actually a hidden space at the end of my
actually a hidden space at the end of my
actually a hidden space at the end of my inputs here. So, if you want to tidy up
inputs here. So, if you want to tidy up
inputs here. So, if you want to tidy up your inputs so that it is definitely a
your inputs so that it is definitely a
your inputs so that it is definitely a yes or no in here, there's a couple of
yes or no in here, there's a couple of
yes or no in here, there's a couple of things you can do to your input. I can
things you can do to your input. I can
things you can do to your input. I can do uh strip and that'll take all of the
do uh strip and that'll take all of the
do uh strip and that'll take all of the white space either size side of that.
white space either size side of that.
white space either size side of that. Also, you might put capitals in there or
Also, you might put capitals in there or
Also, you might put capitals in there or the user might put capitals. So, I'm
the user might put capitals. So, I'm
the user might put capitals. So, I'm going to make that lower as well. So,
going to make that lower as well. So,
going to make that lower as well. So, I'm just going to daisy chain those
I'm just going to daisy chain those
I'm just going to daisy chain those methods together. Dot strip
methods together. Dot strip
methods together. Dot strip lower. Okay. So, get used to doing
lower. Okay. So, get used to doing
lower. Okay. So, get used to doing things like this for your error
things like this for your error
things like this for your error trapping. It's not it's not foolproof.
trapping. It's not it's not foolproof.
trapping. It's not it's not foolproof. If you could still type any other word
If you could still type any other word
If you could still type any other word in there then it would it would fail. Um
in there then it would it would fail. Um
in there then it would it would fail. Um but if I now type yes space yes yes
but if I now type yes space yes yes
but if I now type yes space yes yes space access is still granted. Okay.
space access is still granted. Okay.
space access is still granted. Okay. Run.
