Kind: captions Language: en
Okay, back in the garage. Question
Okay, back in the garage. Question
Okay, back in the garage. Question three. We are going to write to a file.
three. We are going to write to a file.
three. We are going to write to a file. This is exciting. Um, so we're going to
This is exciting. Um, so we're going to
This is exciting. Um, so we're going to do that with a function as well. And
do that with a function as well. And
do that with a function as well. And we're going to discuss
we're going to discuss
we're going to discuss another function
another function
another function called
called
called open which is going to open a file. And
open which is going to open a file. And
open which is going to open a file. And also there's a a what we call a context
also there's a a what we call a context
also there's a a what we call a context manager in Python. Um, and that's called
manager in Python. Um, and that's called
manager in Python. Um, and that's called a a width statement. I'll explain that
a a width statement. I'll explain that
a a width statement. I'll explain that in a second. Uh, but the objective here
in a second. Uh, but the objective here
in a second. Uh, but the objective here is to take some texts. Hello, my name is
is to take some texts. Hello, my name is
is to take some texts. Hello, my name is Rob. That's some text. I'll write that.
Rob. That's some text. I'll write that.
Rob. That's some text. I'll write that. And we're going to save it into a new
And we're going to save it into a new
And we're going to save it into a new text file, which is great because it
text file, which is great because it
text file, which is great because it allows us to permanently store the
allows us to permanently store the
allows us to permanently store the output of whatever we do. So let's um
output of whatever we do. So let's um
output of whatever we do. So let's um let's let's go for it. So
let's let's go for it. So
let's let's go for it. So um
um
um write a function
write a function
write a function to save a message. Okay, so it's a
to save a message. Okay, so it's a
to save a message. Okay, so it's a function. So the first thing we got to
function. So the first thing we got to
function. So the first thing we got to do is defaf. Um I think what did I what
do is defaf. Um I think what did I what
do is defaf. Um I think what did I what did I say the function was going to be
did I say the function was going to be
did I say the function was going to be called? Save message, right? And it's
called? Save message, right? And it's
called? Save message, right? And it's going to take two parameters, msg and
going to take two parameters, msg and
going to take two parameters, msg and file name. Okay, let's do that then.
file name. Okay, let's do that then.
file name. Okay, let's do that then. Save message
Save message
Save message msg. That's our first parameter. That's
msg. That's our first parameter. That's
msg. That's our first parameter. That's when we use this function. We we'll feed
when we use this function. We we'll feed
when we use this function. We we'll feed in the text there. We also want to feed
in the text there. We also want to feed
in the text there. We also want to feed it a file name and we'll call it uh
it a file name and we'll call it uh
it a file name and we'll call it uh message. Ah, no, hang on. Yeah, file
message. Ah, no, hang on. Yeah, file
message. Ah, no, hang on. Yeah, file name. Do that next. File name. Okay.
name. Do that next. File name. Okay.
name. Do that next. File name. Okay. Colon because it's a function. And we'll
Colon because it's a function. And we'll
Colon because it's a function. And we'll open up a a new indentation there. Now,
open up a a new indentation there. Now,
open up a a new indentation there. Now, I'm going to put a comment in here, and
I'm going to put a comment in here, and
I'm going to put a comment in here, and it's going to look slightly different
it's going to look slightly different
it's going to look slightly different from
from
from um what we usually do. We usually do a
um what we usually do. We usually do a
um what we usually do. We usually do a hash, don't we? But I'm going to do a
hash, don't we? But I'm going to do a
hash, don't we? But I'm going to do a triple quotes. And this in Python in and
triple quotes. And this in Python in and
triple quotes. And this in Python in and in fact in many other languages as well,
in fact in many other languages as well,
in fact in many other languages as well, is called a a dock string. And you
is called a a dock string. And you
is called a a dock string. And you typically see them on the first line uh
typically see them on the first line uh
typically see them on the first line uh and when you've when you've started
and when you've when you've started
and when you've when you've started defining a function, and it will just
defining a function, and it will just
defining a function, and it will just tell the user what the function does. So
tell the user what the function does. So
tell the user what the function does. So this function
this function
this function will um save a message to a file. Okay,
will um save a message to a file. Okay,
will um save a message to a file. Okay, that's pretty much all I have to
that's pretty much all I have to
that's pretty much all I have to describe there.
describe there.
describe there. Okay, so here we go. Here's our first
Okay, so here we go. Here's our first
Okay, so here we go. Here's our first business line of code. Um I'm going to
business line of code. Um I'm going to
business line of code. Um I'm going to use the word with and we'll talk through
use the word with and we'll talk through
use the word with and we'll talk through this in a second. Open. Now that's a
this in a second. Open. Now that's a
this in a second. Open. Now that's a function. So I'm going to have an open
function. So I'm going to have an open
function. So I'm going to have an open bracket there. And then
bracket there. And then
bracket there. And then uh what I'm going to do is I'm going to
uh what I'm going to do is I'm going to
uh what I'm going to do is I'm going to put in the file name
put in the file name
put in the file name and then a comma
and then a comma
and then a comma and then
and then
and then this is the important bit in quotation
this is the important bit in quotation
this is the important bit in quotation marks I'm going to put a W. And what the
marks I'm going to put a W. And what the
marks I'm going to put a W. And what the W signifies is that I'm opening a file
W signifies is that I'm opening a file
W signifies is that I'm opening a file to write to it. So a couple of things
to write to it. So a couple of things
to write to it. So a couple of things might happen. Um, if the file doesn't
might happen. Um, if the file doesn't
might happen. Um, if the file doesn't exist, it will create it and then write.
exist, it will create it and then write.
exist, it will create it and then write. If the file does exist,
If the file does exist,
If the file does exist, it won't create a new one, but it will
it won't create a new one, but it will
it won't create a new one, but it will overwrite what was in the file
overwrite what was in the file
overwrite what was in the file originally. So, there's a couple of
originally. So, there's a couple of
originally. So, there's a couple of other um characters we can do. We could
other um characters we can do. We could
other um characters we can do. We could we could have done an R to read a file
we could have done an R to read a file
we could have done an R to read a file without writing to it. Um, and there's a
without writing to it. Um, and there's a
without writing to it. Um, and there's a couple more. I forget what they are.
couple more. I forget what they are.
couple more. I forget what they are. We'll cover those in turn probably.
We'll cover those in turn probably.
We'll cover those in turn probably. Okay. Now, the last thing here is what I
Okay. Now, the last thing here is what I
Okay. Now, the last thing here is what I want to have an as statement here as
want to have an as statement here as
want to have an as statement here as well. Um, I'm just going to call it as
well. Um, I'm just going to call it as
well. Um, I'm just going to call it as f, right? And that
f, right? And that
f, right? And that is going to give me a variable into
is going to give me a variable into
is going to give me a variable into which I can store that file object to do
which I can store that file object to do
which I can store that file object to do stuff with.
stuff with.
stuff with. Uh, okay.
Uh, okay.
Uh, okay. Uh, so
Uh, so
Uh, so that is going that with statement is
that is going that with statement is
that is going that with statement is going to require a colon again. Uh, and
going to require a colon again. Uh, and
going to require a colon again. Uh, and now what we're going to do is we're
now what we're going to do is we're
now what we're going to do is we're going to we're going to write whatever
going to we're going to write whatever
going to we're going to write whatever it is we've got stored in message to the
it is we've got stored in message to the
it is we've got stored in message to the file. So f dot write
msg. Okay. And now this with
msg. Okay. And now this with
msg. Okay. And now this with statement here it's actually doing a lot
statement here it's actually doing a lot
statement here it's actually doing a lot of lot of things under the hood here.
of lot of things under the hood here.
of lot of things under the hood here. It's opening the file. But once we once
It's opening the file. But once we once
It's opening the file. But once we once we come out of this it's going to
we come out of this it's going to
we come out of this it's going to close the file as well. That's really
close the file as well. That's really
close the file as well. That's really important. There are a couple of other
important. There are a couple of other
important. There are a couple of other ways you could have done this without a
ways you could have done this without a
ways you could have done this without a width statement but it would have been
width statement but it would have been
width statement but it would have been important to close the file too. Um,
important to close the file too. Um,
important to close the file too. Um, it's important you close your files
it's important you close your files
it's important you close your files because if you for whatever reason want
because if you for whatever reason want
because if you for whatever reason want to edit the file somewhere else, it
to edit the file somewhere else, it
to edit the file somewhere else, it might not let you. You'll get an error
might not let you. You'll get an error
might not let you. You'll get an error because it's already open. You certainly
because it's already open. You certainly
because it's already open. You certainly won't be able to delete the file if it's
won't be able to delete the file if it's
won't be able to delete the file if it's already open. Uh, and you get you'll get
already open. Uh, and you get you'll get
already open. Uh, and you get you'll get errors basically, especially if you're
errors basically, especially if you're
errors basically, especially if you're running longwinded scripts. Okay, so I
running longwinded scripts. Okay, so I
running longwinded scripts. Okay, so I think that's um that's my defaf my
think that's um that's my defaf my
think that's um that's my defaf my function defined. You'll notice that
function defined. You'll notice that
function defined. You'll notice that um I haven't got a return on this. Um,
um I haven't got a return on this. Um,
um I haven't got a return on this. Um, it doesn't really need one. Um, so all
it doesn't really need one. Um, so all
it doesn't really need one. Um, so all that means is by default it will return
that means is by default it will return
that means is by default it will return none. But actually what what I needed it
none. But actually what what I needed it
none. But actually what what I needed it to do would have would have been done.
to do would have would have been done.
to do would have would have been done. So it would have written this message.
So it would have written this message.
So it would have written this message. So I'm just going to I'm going to leave
So I'm just going to I'm going to leave
So I'm just going to I'm going to leave this function without a return statement
this function without a return statement
this function without a return statement this time. Okay, let's um let's compile.
this time. Okay, let's um let's compile.
this time. Okay, let's um let's compile. Nothing should happen. Yep, that's
Nothing should happen. Yep, that's
Nothing should happen. Yep, that's correct. Right, how are we going to use
correct. Right, how are we going to use
correct. Right, how are we going to use this now? So let's have uh some
this now? So let's have uh some
this now? So let's have uh some examples.
examples.
examples. Um, let's save our first message. Save
Um, let's save our first message. Save
Um, let's save our first message. Save message.
message.
message. Okay. And hello,
Okay. And hello,
Okay. And hello, my name is Rob. Okay, that's my message.
my name is Rob. Okay, that's my message.
my name is Rob. Okay, that's my message. And I'm going to save it as um message
And I'm going to save it as um message
And I'm going to save it as um message 1.txt.
1.txt.
1.txt. Now, it's important you put the
Now, it's important you put the
Now, it's important you put the extension on these files as well because
extension on these files as well because
extension on these files as well because if you don't,
if you don't,
if you don't, it will create the file, but the next
it will create the file, but the next
it will create the file, but the next time you try to open it, it won't know
time you try to open it, it won't know
time you try to open it, it won't know how to handle it. Okay? So, you'll have
how to handle it. Okay? So, you'll have
how to handle it. Okay? So, you'll have to put your extension. It could have
to put your extension. It could have
to put your extension. It could have been a txt. If you're dealing with a bit
been a txt. If you're dealing with a bit
been a txt. If you're dealing with a bit of data, the most likely thing you're
of data, the most likely thing you're
of data, the most likely thing you're going to do there is a CSV. So, let's
going to do there is a CSV. So, let's
going to do there is a CSV. So, let's run this and see what happens. Okay?
run this and see what happens. Okay?
run this and see what happens. Okay? Nothing's come out in the terminal, but
Nothing's come out in the terminal, but
Nothing's come out in the terminal, but you'll see in my project on the left
you'll see in my project on the left
you'll see in my project on the left here, I've now got a message one.ext
here, I've now got a message one.ext
here, I've now got a message one.ext text file and stored in it is some text.
text file and stored in it is some text.
text file and stored in it is some text. Isn't that fantastic?
Isn't that fantastic?
Isn't that fantastic? So, just to to prove to you I could have
So, just to to prove to you I could have
So, just to to prove to you I could have done some other stuff. How about let's
done some other stuff. How about let's
done some other stuff. How about let's think about this. How about we create a
think about this. How about we create a
think about this. How about we create a really long string full of numbers? So,
really long string full of numbers? So,
really long string full of numbers? So, I'm actually going to
I'm actually going to
I'm actually going to h let's have a think about this. Let's
h let's have a think about this. Let's
h let's have a think about this. Let's um let's import random.
um let's import random.
um let's import random. This is just I've completed the exercise
This is just I've completed the exercise
This is just I've completed the exercise now. By the way, I'm just doing this for
now. By the way, I'm just doing this for
now. By the way, I'm just doing this for fun, right? And we'll import random and
fun, right? And we'll import random and
fun, right? And we'll import random and we will uh create a loop for
we will uh create a loop for
we will uh create a loop for i in range.
i in range.
i in range. Let's do 100 numbers. Okay, we're going
Let's do 100 numbers. Okay, we're going
Let's do 100 numbers. Okay, we're going to create um a random number
to create um a random number
to create um a random number using my rand int function.
using my rand int function.
using my rand int function. Um, I'll do it between
Um, I'll do it between
Um, I'll do it between zero and a th00and.
zero and a th00and.
zero and a th00and. And then I'm going to do that a thousand
And then I'm going to do that a thousand
And then I'm going to do that a thousand times. So, actually I want to I'm going
times. So, actually I want to I'm going
times. So, actually I want to I'm going to create a message
to create a message
to create a message um
message string.
message string.
message string. And every time I create a number, I'm
And every time I create a number, I'm
And every time I create a number, I'm going to append um to that. So, I'm
going to append um to that. So, I'm
going to append um to that. So, I'm going to do message string plus or
going to do message string plus or
going to do message string plus or equals um num. I'm also going to
equals um num. I'm also going to
equals um num. I'm also going to add
add
add a What am I going to do here? Yeah, I'm
a What am I going to do here? Yeah, I'm
a What am I going to do here? Yeah, I'm going to add this character. So, that
going to add this character. So, that
going to add this character. So, that back slashn signifies
back slashn signifies
back slashn signifies a hang on. I've done this wrong, haven't
a hang on. I've done this wrong, haven't
a hang on. I've done this wrong, haven't I? No, that's right. Signifies a new
I? No, that's right. Signifies a new
I? No, that's right. Signifies a new line.
line.
line. And then
And then
And then let me just check my silences. I'm going
let me just check my silences. I'm going
let me just check my silences. I'm going to print out that message string to see
to print out that message string to see
to print out that message string to see if it's worked. I should get a list of a
if it's worked. I should get a list of a
if it's worked. I should get a list of a th00and numbers. Oh, hang on. I can't
th00and numbers. Oh, hang on. I can't
th00and numbers. Oh, hang on. I can't add that together. Uh because I need to
add that together. Uh because I need to
add that together. Uh because I need to convert this to a string.
Okay, so I've generated a random number.
Okay, so I've generated a random number.
Okay, so I've generated a random number. I've converted into a string. I've added
I've converted into a string. I've added
I've converted into a string. I've added a new line character and I've appended
a new line character and I've appended
a new line character and I've appended it to my empty string message. Will that
it to my empty string message. Will that
it to my empty string message. Will that work? Yes. Yes, it will. And I want to
work? Yes. Yes, it will. And I want to
work? Yes. Yes, it will. And I want to So now I want to save that to some sort
So now I want to save that to some sort
So now I want to save that to some sort of data file. So I can use my save
of data file. So I can use my save
of data file. So I can use my save message again. This time I'm not going
message again. This time I'm not going
message again. This time I'm not going to type a message in here. I'm going to
to type a message in here. I'm going to
to type a message in here. I'm going to use that message string that I've
use that message string that I've
use that message string that I've created above.
created above.
created above. And I'm going to create a new file
And I'm going to create a new file
And I'm going to create a new file called data dot and this time I'm going
called data dot and this time I'm going
called data dot and this time I'm going to do CSV and it should handle that.
to do CSV and it should handle that.
to do CSV and it should handle that. Okay. Ah sorry this is wrong. Data not
Okay. Ah sorry this is wrong. Data not
Okay. Ah sorry this is wrong. Data not data view data string. Okay. Message
data view data string. Okay. Message
data view data string. Okay. Message string. So this time when I run this,
string. So this time when I run this,
string. So this time when I run this, it's created me another
it's created me another
it's created me another um file which is called data.csv. And
um file which is called data.csv. And
um file which is called data.csv. And there it is. There's my lovely data. Now
there it is. There's my lovely data. Now
there it is. There's my lovely data. Now in Visual Studio Code, I have a little
in Visual Studio Code, I have a little
in Visual Studio Code, I have a little package that handles CSVs.
package that handles CSVs.
package that handles CSVs. Let me just take a look at it. Um I
Let me just take a look at it. Um I
Let me just take a look at it. Um I think it's in the extensions manager. If
think it's in the extensions manager. If
think it's in the extensions manager. If I type CSV here,
I type CSV here,
I type CSV here, yeah, it's the rainbow CSV I like to
yeah, it's the rainbow CSV I like to
yeah, it's the rainbow CSV I like to use. So, you may want to add this
use. So, you may want to add this
use. So, you may want to add this extension u because otherwise your CSVs
extension u because otherwise your CSVs
extension u because otherwise your CSVs will look pretty boring. Um it gives you
will look pretty boring. Um it gives you
will look pretty boring. Um it gives you a bit of even though I haven't really
a bit of even though I haven't really
a bit of even though I haven't really done much in my CSV
done much in my CSV
done much in my CSV in the future when I've got multiple
in the future when I've got multiple
in the future when I've got multiple columns, multiple things going on, it
columns, multiple things going on, it
columns, multiple things going on, it will make it a bit easier to read in
will make it a bit easier to read in
will make it a bit easier to read in your um your viewer here. Right, I think
your um your viewer here. Right, I think
your um your viewer here. Right, I think that's the end of that question. Um
that's the end of that question. Um
that's the end of that question. Um let's move on to question four.
