Kind: captions Language: en
Question eight,
Question eight,
Question eight, guess the number. Write a script where
guess the number. Write a script where
guess the number. Write a script where the computer picks a number between 1
the computer picks a number between 1
the computer picks a number between 1 and 20.
and 20.
and 20. The user keeps guessing until they get
The user keeps guessing until they get
The user keeps guessing until they get it right. Oh, this is a good one. After
it right. Oh, this is a good one. After
it right. Oh, this is a good one. After each guess, print too low or too high.
each guess, print too low or too high.
each guess, print too low or too high. Right now,
Right now,
Right now, at this point, I'm going to introduce
at this point, I'm going to introduce
at this point, I'm going to introduce you to our second
you to our second
you to our second loop construct, which is called the
loop construct, which is called the
loop construct, which is called the while loop. Now, I might have mentioned
while loop. Now, I might have mentioned
while loop. Now, I might have mentioned this already, but I'm not a huge fan of
this already, but I'm not a huge fan of
this already, but I'm not a huge fan of while loops while loops because they get
while loops while loops because they get
while loops while loops because they get me into trouble. However, I think in
me into trouble. However, I think in
me into trouble. However, I think in this case, a while loop would be a
this case, a while loop would be a
this case, a while loop would be a really great
really great
really great uh way to solve this problem. Okay,
uh way to solve this problem. Okay,
uh way to solve this problem. Okay, let's think about it.
let's think about it.
let's think about it. Question number
Question number
Question number eight.
Right. So, first of all, I'm going to
Right. So, first of all, I'm going to
Right. So, first of all, I'm going to pick a number between 1 and 20. Okay,
pick a number between 1 and 20. Okay,
pick a number between 1 and 20. Okay, that's great. So,
that's great. So,
that's great. So, pick a number between 1 and 20. Okay.
pick a number between 1 and 20. Okay.
pick a number between 1 and 20. Okay. Now, we haven't um we haven't come
Now, we haven't um we haven't come
Now, we haven't um we haven't come across imports yet. I think we did
across imports yet. I think we did
across imports yet. I think we did import math in the first week. So, I'm
import math in the first week. So, I'm
import math in the first week. So, I'm going to use a
going to use a
going to use a a library in Python that is not
a library in Python that is not
a library in Python that is not preloaded. So, it does exist in in your
preloaded. So, it does exist in in your
preloaded. So, it does exist in in your codebase, but I need to import it. I'm
codebase, but I need to import it. I'm
codebase, but I need to import it. I'm going to import
going to import
going to import uh random
uh random
uh random um and there's a couple of ways I can do
um and there's a couple of ways I can do
um and there's a couple of ways I can do this.
Let's just get that number out first. So
Let's just get that number out first. So
Let's just get that number out first. So random random
random random
random random int I'm going to call that right. So
int I'm going to call that right. So
int I'm going to call that right. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to use
what I'm going to do is I'm going to use
what I'm going to do is I'm going to use this random module that I've imported
this random module that I've imported
this random module that I've imported random
random
random and I know that on the random module
and I know that on the random module
and I know that on the random module there is a method called rand int. Okay.
there is a method called rand int. Okay.
there is a method called rand int. Okay. And if I do
And if I do
And if I do 20 in there, it should pick a number
20 in there, it should pick a number
20 in there, it should pick a number between 1 and 20. I think it will also
between 1 and 20. I think it will also
between 1 and 20. I think it will also pick zero. That's okay for now. Let me
pick zero. That's okay for now. Let me
pick zero. That's okay for now. Let me just run it.
Okay.
And I've got an error. Does it say
And I've got an error. Does it say
And I've got an error. Does it say missing one required positional? Ah, so
missing one required positional? Ah, so
missing one required positional? Ah, so I do need to do between one
I do need to do between one
I do need to do between one and 20.
and 20.
and 20. There we go. It's giving me 13. Oh,
There we go. It's giving me 13. Oh,
There we go. It's giving me 13. Oh, that's unlucky, isn't it? I hope you're
that's unlucky, isn't it? I hope you're
that's unlucky, isn't it? I hope you're not superstitious. Um, okay. So, I can
not superstitious. Um, okay. So, I can
not superstitious. Um, okay. So, I can generate a random number. If I keep if I
generate a random number. If I keep if I
generate a random number. If I keep if I keep doing it, you can see I get lots
keep doing it, you can see I get lots
keep doing it, you can see I get lots and lots of different random numbers.
and lots of different random numbers.
and lots of different random numbers. Did it ever give me a 20? Yes, it did
Did it ever give me a 20? Yes, it did
Did it ever give me a 20? Yes, it did give me a 20. So, it will go to 20 as
give me a 20. So, it will go to 20 as
give me a 20. So, it will go to 20 as well. I've seen a one in there as well,
well. I've seen a one in there as well,
well. I've seen a one in there as well, so I know it's going to do that. Right.
so I know it's going to do that. Right.
so I know it's going to do that. Right. Okay. Brilliant. Now, the game is
I want to ask the user for a guess.
I want to ask the user for a guess.
I want to ask the user for a guess. Okay. So, guess.
Okay. So, guess.
Okay. So, guess. Okay. And I need to do this in a way
Okay. And I need to do this in a way
Okay. And I need to do this in a way that it keeps asking me until I get it
that it keeps asking me until I get it
that it keeps asking me until I get it right. Here comes the while loop.
right. Here comes the while loop.
right. Here comes the while loop. While
While
While No, I could just put a colon here. I'm
No, I could just put a colon here. I'm
No, I could just put a colon here. I'm pretty sure. No. Um,
I think I do while true.
Okay.
The second thing I'm going to do is I'm
The second thing I'm going to do is I'm
The second thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create a placeholder variable
going to create a placeholder variable
going to create a placeholder variable for my guess. I'm just going now I need
for my guess. I'm just going now I need
for my guess. I'm just going now I need to make sure that
to make sure that
to make sure that whatever I store in here can't be
whatever I store in here can't be
whatever I store in here can't be between 1 and 20. Okay, otherwise I
between 1 and 20. Okay, otherwise I
between 1 and 20. Okay, otherwise I might accidentally guess it before I
might accidentally guess it before I
might accidentally guess it before I even start. So I'm just going to use
even start. So I'm just going to use
even start. So I'm just going to use um a none variable. Now that's fine.
um a none variable. Now that's fine.
um a none variable. Now that's fine. Okay, that just means that Python knows
Okay, that just means that Python knows
Okay, that just means that Python knows that nothing is stored in that variable.
that nothing is stored in that variable.
that nothing is stored in that variable. Okay, here comes my while function, my
Okay, here comes my while function, my
Okay, here comes my while function, my while loop. So the way I'm going to use
while loop. So the way I'm going to use
while loop. So the way I'm going to use this while loop, I'm going to write the
this while loop, I'm going to write the
this while loop, I'm going to write the word while. Then I'm going to give it a
word while. Then I'm going to give it a
word while. Then I'm going to give it a conditional statement. Okay? And I'm
conditional statement. Okay? And I'm
conditional statement. Okay? And I'm going to say while
going to say while
going to say while um I haven't got the right number. So
um I haven't got the right number. So
um I haven't got the right number. So while guess is not equal to random
while guess is not equal to random
while guess is not equal to random int.
int.
int. Okay. And um I think we've come across
Okay. And um I think we've come across
Okay. And um I think we've come across this a couple of times, but anything
this a couple of times, but anything
this a couple of times, but anything where you have an exclamation mark and
where you have an exclamation mark and
where you have an exclamation mark and an equals instead of
an equals instead of
an equals instead of equals equals when you're comparing
equals equals when you're comparing
equals equals when you're comparing things, that means it's not equal to.
things, that means it's not equal to.
things, that means it's not equal to. Okay, so while guess is not equal to
Okay, so while guess is not equal to
Okay, so while guess is not equal to random int, I'm going to ask the user
random int, I'm going to ask the user
random int, I'm going to ask the user for a guess and I'm going to update my
for a guess and I'm going to update my
for a guess and I'm going to update my guess variable with whatever they input.
guess variable with whatever they input.
guess variable with whatever they input. Don't forget, I'm going to ask for an
Don't forget, I'm going to ask for an
Don't forget, I'm going to ask for an integer. So I'm going to convert it to
integer. So I'm going to convert it to
integer. So I'm going to convert it to an integer first. input.
an integer first. input.
an integer first. input. Please
Please
Please uh
guess the number
guess the number
guess the number between 1 and 20. Okay.
Okay. Okay. So, I'm going to get the gas
Okay. Okay. So, I'm going to get the gas
Okay. Okay. So, I'm going to get the gas and then
Okay. And I need to I need to go back
Okay. And I need to I need to go back
Okay. And I need to I need to go back and read the question now to remember
and read the question now to remember
and read the question now to remember what I'm doing.
what I'm doing.
what I'm doing. Uh, okay.
Uh, okay.
Uh, okay. After each guess, print too low or too
After each guess, print too low or too
After each guess, print too low or too high. And that's good because it will
high. And that's good because it will
high. And that's good because it will let the user kind of zone in on what
let the user kind of zone in on what
let the user kind of zone in on what they need to guess, right? Um, okay. So
if
if
if the guess is
the guess is
the guess is bigger than random
bigger than random
bigger than random int
int
int I need to print
I need to print
I need to print too high
an L if
an L if
an L if Yes.
Is less than random int
Is less than random int
Is less than random int print
print
print to Oh. Um what? Because we're in a while
to Oh. Um what? Because we're in a while
to Oh. Um what? Because we're in a while loop here.
loop here.
loop here. If
If
If if guess is not random int, it will keep
if guess is not random int, it will keep
if guess is not random int, it will keep going. Okay. So, it'll ask the So, let's
going. Okay. So, it'll ask the So, let's
going. Okay. So, it'll ask the So, let's let's just go through this line by line.
let's just go through this line by line.
let's just go through this line by line. Right. I've got a random number and
Right. I've got a random number and
Right. I've got a random number and defined that store that in random int.
defined that store that in random int.
defined that store that in random int. I've set up an empty guess variable.
I've set up an empty guess variable.
I've set up an empty guess variable. I've started a while loop and because my
I've started a while loop and because my
I've started a while loop and because my initial guess has got none in it. It's
initial guess has got none in it. It's
initial guess has got none in it. It's not equal to random in. So this is true.
not equal to random in. So this is true.
not equal to random in. So this is true. So I'm going to do the next line. I'm
So I'm going to do the next line. I'm
So I'm going to do the next line. I'm going to ask the user to input a number
going to ask the user to input a number
going to ask the user to input a number between 1 and 20. Okay. Once I've got
between 1 and 20. Okay. Once I've got
between 1 and 20. Okay. Once I've got that number, I'm going to compare it to
that number, I'm going to compare it to
that number, I'm going to compare it to my random int. If it's too big, I'll say
my random int. If it's too big, I'll say
my random int. If it's too big, I'll say too high. If it's too low, I'll say too
too high. If it's too low, I'll say too
too high. If it's too low, I'll say too low.
low.
low. and then I'll go around again. That's
and then I'll go around again. That's
and then I'll go around again. That's what the wild does, right? It'll ask me
what the wild does, right? It'll ask me
what the wild does, right? It'll ask me for another number. Okay. Now, there's
for another number. Okay. Now, there's
for another number. Okay. Now, there's only one other possibility here
only one other possibility here
only one other possibility here and that is I've got the number correct.
and that is I've got the number correct.
and that is I've got the number correct. So,
So,
So, if that happens, I will jump out of this
if that happens, I will jump out of this
if that happens, I will jump out of this while loop because this statement is not
while loop because this statement is not
while loop because this statement is not true. So, it won't do it anymore. Okay.
true. So, it won't do it anymore. Okay.
true. So, it won't do it anymore. Okay. And at that point, I just need to print
And at that point, I just need to print
And at that point, I just need to print well done.
well done.
well done. Excellent guess.
The number
The number
The number is
is
is random in. And I need to put my f in
random in. And I need to put my f in
random in. And I need to put my f in there for an S string.
there for an S string.
there for an S string. We'll stop there. Now, let's see what
We'll stop there. Now, let's see what
We'll stop there. Now, let's see what happens if I run this.
Okay, let's guess a number. Let's go.
Okay, let's guess a number. Let's go.
Okay, let's guess a number. Let's go. Middle mid table 10. Too high. So, let's
Middle mid table 10. Too high. So, let's
Middle mid table 10. Too high. So, let's go five. Too low. Maybe seven.
go five. Too low. Maybe seven.
go five. Too low. Maybe seven. Too low. Eight. Then it must be a nine
Too low. Eight. Then it must be a nine
Too low. Eight. Then it must be a nine then. Yes. Okay. Job done. And that is
then. Yes. Okay. Job done. And that is
then. Yes. Okay. Job done. And that is the while. Now you can see there's a bit
the while. Now you can see there's a bit
the while. Now you can see there's a bit of extra thinking to be done here when
of extra thinking to be done here when
of extra thinking to be done here when dealing with whiles.
dealing with whiles.
dealing with whiles. So
So
So just be very very careful when you use
just be very very careful when you use
just be very very careful when you use them because if I done something silly
them because if I done something silly
them because if I done something silly like asked or compared numbers to ranges
like asked or compared numbers to ranges
like asked or compared numbers to ranges beyond here it may well have looped
beyond here it may well have looped
beyond here it may well have looped forever. Okay. Um or for example if I
forever. Okay. Um or for example if I
forever. Okay. Um or for example if I did if I did this
did if I did this
did if I did this um I got this wrong.
Okay. I could end up in an infinite
Okay. I could end up in an infinite
Okay. I could end up in an infinite loop.
loop.
loop. 10. Too high. Uh, so I'll go lower.
10. Too high. Uh, so I'll go lower.
10. Too high. Uh, so I'll go lower. Five. Too high. One. Too high.
Five. Too high. One. Too high.
Five. Too high. One. Too high. Yeah, that's no good, is it? So, if you
Yeah, that's no good, is it? So, if you
Yeah, that's no good, is it? So, if you make a mistake while while using a
make a mistake while while using a
make a mistake while while using a while,
while,
while, that can uh cause a bit of pain. So,
that can uh cause a bit of pain. So,
that can uh cause a bit of pain. So, just be very careful when you're using
just be very careful when you're using
just be very careful when you're using them. Okay.
them. Okay.
them. Okay. Right. I'm going to let you take care of
Right. I'm going to let you take care of
Right. I'm going to let you take care of the remaining challenges in the workshop
the remaining challenges in the workshop
the remaining challenges in the workshop this week.
this week.
this week. Any problems, let me know.
