Kind: captions Language: en
like that. We'll cover that later. Okay,
like that. We'll cover that later. Okay,
like that. We'll cover that later. Okay, brilliant. Let's move on to Q2.
brilliant. Let's move on to Q2.
brilliant. Let's move on to Q2. Let's create a file Q2.py
Let's create a file Q2.py
Let's create a file Q2.py in that week 2 folder. Let's flick back.
in that week 2 folder. Let's flick back.
in that week 2 folder. Let's flick back. Temperature converter.
Temperature converter.
Temperature converter. So,
So,
So, I'm going to ask for a prompt in Celsius
I'm going to ask for a prompt in Celsius
I'm going to ask for a prompt in Celsius and I'm going to convert it to
and I'm going to convert it to
and I'm going to convert it to Fahrenheit.
Fahrenheit.
Fahrenheit. And I've given a formula here for the
And I've given a formula here for the
And I've given a formula here for the conversion of
Celsius to Fahrenheits. Right. So I'm
Celsius to Fahrenheits. Right. So I'm
Celsius to Fahrenheits. Right. So I'm actually going to I'm actually going to
actually going to I'm actually going to
actually going to I'm actually going to copy this straight into a new script.
copy this straight into a new script.
copy this straight into a new script. Comment a lot
Comment a lot
Comment a lot and I'm going to work on that from here.
and I'm going to work on that from here.
and I'm going to work on that from here. Okay.
Right. Let's do this then. Let's get an
Right. Let's do this then. Let's get an
Right. Let's do this then. Let's get an input. Um
input. Um
input. Um I'm going to do temp temperature
I'm going to do temp temperature
I'm going to do temp temperature in Celsius
in Celsius
in Celsius input
input
input equal. Now I want a float again. Okay.
equal. Now I want a float again. Okay.
equal. Now I want a float again. Okay. Then my input
please input a temperature
please input a temperature
please input a temperature in
in
in Celsius
colon. Okay,
then I'm going to calculate the
then I'm going to calculate the
then I'm going to calculate the temperature in Fahrenheit using that
temperature in Fahrenheit using that
temperature in Fahrenheit using that equation above. Where's it gone?
equation above. Where's it gone?
equation above. Where's it gone? Bring this down here.
Equals. Right. So to do that, I'm going
Equals. Right. So to do that, I'm going
Equals. Right. So to do that, I'm going to use C, which is temperature in
to use C, which is temperature in
to use C, which is temperature in Celsius, which I call temp.
Celsius, which I call temp.
Celsius, which I call temp. I'm going to multiply it by 9 over5 and
I'm going to multiply it by 9 over5 and
I'm going to multiply it by 9 over5 and I'm going to add 32.
I'm going to add 32.
I'm going to add 32. Now, just to make sure that this is
Now, just to make sure that this is
Now, just to make sure that this is actually going to work, I'm going to put
actually going to work, I'm going to put
actually going to work, I'm going to put some brackets in here. So, I'm going to
some brackets in here. So, I'm going to
some brackets in here. So, I'm going to make sure it does that quotient first.
make sure it does that quotient first.
make sure it does that quotient first. Then, I'm going to make sure it
Then, I'm going to make sure it
Then, I'm going to make sure it multiplies those two things together
multiplies those two things together
multiplies those two things together before it adds. Okay. So, I think it
before it adds. Okay. So, I think it
before it adds. Okay. So, I think it would have worked without the brackets,
would have worked without the brackets,
would have worked without the brackets, but just to be sure, I'm going to put
but just to be sure, I'm going to put
but just to be sure, I'm going to put some brackets in. Then I'm going to
some brackets in. Then I'm going to
some brackets in. Then I'm going to print out the answer. Print
print out the answer. Print
print out the answer. Print out the answer.
Temperature
in Fahrenheit
is going to be temp F.
Okay.
No, I'm going to leave the unit off it.
No, I'm going to leave the unit off it.
No, I'm going to leave the unit off it. Okay, let's run this.
Okay, let's run this.
Okay, let's run this. Let's have a look. Let's do 32°
Let's have a look. Let's do 32°
Let's have a look. Let's do 32° 89.6. I know that's about right. So, I
89.6. I know that's about right. So, I
89.6. I know that's about right. So, I think I'm right there. If you're not
think I'm right there. If you're not
think I'm right there. If you're not sure, just Google it. Make sure it's
sure, just Google it. Make sure it's
sure, just Google it. Make sure it's giving you roughly the right answer. And
giving you roughly the right answer. And
giving you roughly the right answer. And that is question two, right?
